
A 35-year-old man, who had 
recently got married, suffered a heart attack while 
playing Garba and died while 
being taken to hospital in Virar, said the police on Monday. What is equally bad is 
that the father too died when 
he saw that the son had died, 
police said. The deceased was 
identified as Manish Jain. According to the police, the 
deceased Manish lived with 
his family in Global City Virar West. Manish suffered 
a heart attack during Dandiya on Saturday night, after which his father Narpat 
and his brother took him to 
the hospital, but Manish was 
declared dead. 
“Manish died while he was 
being brought to the hospital”, the police added. 
After learning about his son’s death, his father Narpat 
also collapsed and died of a 
heart attack in the hospital. 
The Jain family trades 
in buying and selling gold. 
The deceased had got married three months back. The 
Arnala police have registered 
a case of accidental death.
Earlier, in another incident, 
a young man in Mumbai died 
on Saturday after experiencing chest pain while playing 
Garba. While playing Garba, the man fell down. He was 
admitted to a nearby hospital, where the doctor declared 
him dead. 
The person was identified 
as 27-year-old Rishabh. He 
was a resident of Dombivili 
West. He worked at a private 
company. 
The Mulund Police has 
registered the matter under 
Accidental Death Report 
(ADR) and has started the 
investigation. 

*
In light of the significant 
financial and socio-economic risk for the consumers, especially youth and 
children, the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting 
on Monday issued two advisories - one for private television channels and the other 
for digital news publishers and OTT platforms - strongly 
advising them to refrain from 
showing advertisements of offshore online betting sites 
and surrogate advertisements of such sites. 
The Ministry had earlier issued an advisory on 13 June 2022, advising newspapers, private TV channels and 
digital news publishers to 
refrain from publishing advertisements on online betting platforms. It had come 
to the notice of the Government that several sports 
channels on television, as 
well as on OTT platforms, 
have recently been showing advertisements of offshore 
online betting platforms as 
well as their surrogate news websites. 
The Advisories were supplemented with evidence 
which contained direct and surrogate advertisements of 
offshore betting platforms 
such as Fairplay, PariMatch, Betway, Wolf 777 , and 1xBet. 
The Ministry of Information and Broadcasting in its advisory observed that 
promotional content and 
advertisements of betting platforms are still visible 
on certain digital news platforms and OTT platforms. 
In the Advisories, the Min -istry has informed that online 
offshore betting platforms are now using news websites as a surrogate product 
to advertise the betting platforms on digital media. In 
such cases, the Ministry has 
found that the logos of surrogate news websites bear a striking resemblance to betting platforms. 
“Further, it has also come 
to the notice of that some 
online offshore betting platforms have started using news websites as a surrogate product to advertise betting 
platforms on digital media,” 
the ministry said. 
The advisories issued by the 
Ministry stated that since betting and gambling is illegal in most parts of the country, advertisements of these betting platforms as well as their surrogates are also illegal.

*
Nobel Prize in Medicine or 
Physiology 2022 was awarded to Svante Paabo for his 
discoveries concerning the 
genomes of extinct hominins and human evolution, 
announced the award-giving 
organisation on Monday. 
“The Nobel Assembly at 
Karolinska Institutet has today decided to award the 
2022 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine to Svante Paabo for his discoveries 
concerning the genomes of 
extinct hominins and human evolution,” read the 
Nobel Prize statement. The 
2022 Nobel Prize laureate 
Svante Paabo found that gene transfer had occurred from the now extinct hominins to Homo sapiens. This 
ancient flow of genes to present-day humans has physiological relevance today, for 
example affecting how our 
immune system reacts to infections, the statement said. 
Svante Paabo has established an entirely new 
scientific discipline, paleogenomics. By revealing genetic differences that distinguish all living humans from extinct hominins, his discoveries provide the basis for exploring what 
makes us uniquely human.  
Through his pioneering 
research, Svante Paabo 
accomplished something 
seemingly impossible: sequencing the genome of the Neanderthal, an extinct relative of present-day humans. He also made the sensational 
discovery of a previously unknown hominin, Denisova, 
entirely from genome data retrieved from a small finger 
bone specimen. 
Importantly, Paabo also 
found that gene transfer had occurred from these now 
extinct hominins to Homo 
sapiens following the migration from Africa around 
70,000 years ago, the statement read. 
Svante Paabo is a Swedish geneticist specialising 
in the field of evolutionary 
genetics who was recruited to the University of Munich 
in 1990, where, as a newly 
appointed Professor, he continued his work on archaic 
DNA.

*
The Congress on Monday 
issued a set of guidelines 
for the election, debarring 
party office-bearers from 
campaigning for candidates. 
Those who wish to support any candidate will have 
to first resign from their 
organisational post. The 
guidelines were issued by 
the Congress’ central election authority. 
Mallikarjun Kharge and 
Shashi Tharoor are contesting the Congress president election in their personal capacity, the party said, noting 
that the “delegates are free to 
elect any one of them, as per 
their choice, through ballot 
paper”.
AICC general secretaries/
In-charges, secretaries, joint 
secretaries, 
Pradesh Congress Committee 
(PCC) presidents, 
Congress Legislature Party 
(CLP) leaders, heads of frontal organisations, chiefs of 
departments, cells and all 
official spokespersons “shall 
not campaign for or against 
contesting candidates”, it 
said.
“If they wish to support any 
candidate, they must first 
resign from their organisational post, after that they 
participate in the campaign 
process,” it said.
The polling for the Congress presidential election 
will be held on October 17 . 
The counting of votes will be taken up on October 19 and the results will be declared 
the same day.
More than 9,000 Pradesh 
Congress Committee (PCC) 
delegates will vote in the 
poll.
 “However, no such meeting can be called by the PCC 
president in their personal 
capacity,” it warned.
Organising the meeting is 
the task of the proposer or the supporters of the contesting candidates, it pointed out.
During the election, the 
Congress said, no candidate 
can use vehicles for bringing voters nor resort to any 
“undesired pamphleteering” 
or any other kind of publication propaganda.
“Controverters of these 
procedures shall render the 
candidatures election invalid and make them liable 
for disciplinary action,” the 
party warned.
It said utmost care must be 
taken to ensure that there 
is no mala-fide campaign 
against any candidate. “The 
same would bring disgrace 
to the party. The sensitivity 
of the election process must 
be upheld at any cost,” it 
cautioned.
In a tweet, Tharoor said 
he welcomes the announcement by the party’s chief 
election authority on the 
organisation’s presidential 
election.

*
The first batch of 
indigenously-developed Light Combat 
Helicopter (LCH) named 
‘Prachand’ was inducted 
into the Indian Air Force (IAF) on Monday. The new chopper inducted into the 
force is capable of aerial 
combat and will help the force combat slow-moving aircraft, drones and armoured columns during 
conflicts. 
The LCH is a dedicated 
combat helicopter designed and developed indigenously in India. It has been manufactured by Hindu -stan Aeronautics Limited 
(HAL).
Wishing every Indian 
upon LCH’s induction into IAF’s inventory, PM Modi 
wrote, “The induction of LCH ‘Prachanda’ is a special moment for the collective resolve of 130 crore Indians to make our nation strong and self-reliant in 
the defence sector. Congratulations to every Indian!” 
The induction ceremony 
was held in Rajasthan’s 
Jodhpur where newly appointed Chief of Defence 
Staff (CDS) Anil Chauhan was present along with the 
Union Defence Minister 
Rajnath Singh. Earlier, Cabinet Committee on Security had cleared the purchase of 15 of these LCHs for the air force and 
the army. Of the 15 limited 
series production helicop-ters approved, 10 are for the 
IAF and five for the army. It 
can land and take off from an altitude of 5,000 metres with weapons and fuel, the 
officials said.
While speaking on the 
occasion, Rajnath Singh 
said that LCH will enhance 
our capability and boost 
defence production, proving India’s commitment towards self-reliance in De-fence production.
HAL Chairman and Managing Director CB Ananthakrishnan addressed 
the event and said, “This 
made-in-India LCH is state-of-the-art, one of the 
best combat flying machines in the world. LCH is 
the only attack helicopter 
in the world that can land 
and take off at an altitude of 5,000 metres.” 
Union Defence Minister 
Rajnath Singh, who was present at the occasion, said that LCH will enhance our capability and 
will boost defence production and it proves India’s commitment towards selfreliance in Defence production. 
Defence Minister also 
talked about the key feature of 
this made-in-India LCH and said 
it perfectly meets the needs 
of our armed forces.  “LCH 
is capable of dodging the 
enemy, carrying a variety of ammunition, and delivering it to the site quickly. LCH perfectly meets the needs of our armed forces 
in various terrains and it is 
an ideal platform for both our Army and Airforce,” he added. 

*
The Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) on Monday 
detained a foreign national 
and mastermind of Joint 
Entrance Examination (JEE) Main 2021 paper leak case. 
According to sources, CBI 
is interrogating a foreign 
national after taking him 
over from Bureau of Immigration (BoI) at Indira Gandhi International Airport in 
Delhi which had detained 
this Russian national on his 
arrival from Kazakhstan 
based on Look out Circular (LOC) issed by CBI in Software tampering case 
of JEE Mains-2021. He was 
the main hacker in the case. 
“He was the mastermind in 
the case who has hacked the 
software of examination. We 
are questioning him to ascertain the role of the other 
people involved in the case 
and identifying the people 
who were giving instructions to him,” said a senior 
CBI official. 
The accused has been 
identified as Mikhail Shargin, a Russian national. The 
accused was detained by the 
Bureau of Immigration at IGI Airport, Delhi while arriving in India from Almaty, 
Kazakhstan. A Look Out Circular 
was opened against him. 
During investigation, it came 
to light that some foreign nationals were 
involved in compromising many online examinations including JEE (Mains) colluding 
with other accused in the instant case. Role of 
one Russian National was revealed who had 
allegedly tampered with the iLeon software 
(the platform on which the JEE(Main)-2021 
examination was conducted) and that he 
helped other accused in hacking the computer systems of suspect candidates during the 
examination. Therefore, a Look Out Circular 
was opened against the said Russian National. 
On September 2021, CBI had registered a 
case against a private company and others 
including its Directors and three employees, 
private persons(conduits) etc on the allegations of irregularities being committed in 
the ongoing JEE (Mains) Exams 2021 by a 
private educational institution, its directors, 
their touts/associates and staff posted at the examination centre and other unknown persons. 
It was further alleged that the said company and its Directors were manipulating 
the online examination of JEE (Mains) and 
facilitating aspiring students to get admission 
in top NITs in consideration of huge amount 
by solving the question paper of the applicant 
through remote access from a chosen examination centre in Sonepat (Haryana). 
It was also alleged that the accused used to 
obtain Xth and XIIth mark sheets, the User 
IDs, Passwords, and Post Dated Cheques 
of aspiring students in different parts of country as security and once admission was 
done, they used to collect heavy amount 
ranging from Rs 12-15 lakh per candidate.  
Searches were conducted in Delhi & NCR, 
Pune, Jamshedpur, Indore and Bangalore 
which led to recovery of 25 Laptops, seven 
PCs, around 30 Post-Dated Cheques along 
with voluminous incriminating documents/ 
devices including PDC mark sheet of different students. 

*
A passenger jet operated by 
Mahan Air, which was on its 
way from Tehran to Guangzhou in China hovered in 
Indian airspace for about 
40 minutes, before it was 
allowed to leave India after 
getting clearance by Iranian 
authorities, according to an 
official. 
According to sources, inputs were received at 9:20 
a.m. on Monday by Delhi Police about a bomb threat on 
board the Airbus A340 aircraft after which Indian Air 
Force jets were scrambled to 
intercept the aircraft. Indian 
Air Force Su-30MKI fighter 
jets from Halwara (Punjab) 
and Jodhpur airbases were 
scrambled to intercept the 
flight which was moving towards the New Delhi airspace. 
Sanjay Tomar, Deputy 
Chief Fire officer said, “ At 
around 9.25 a.m. we were informed of a bomb scare after 
which we put our teams in 
a stand-by position but the 
flight did not land. We were 
given an all-clear message at 
10.05 am by security”. 
“They might have had 
some suspicion about the 
bomb scare, so we were 
kept on alert for it. We had 
positioned our vehicles. We 
had two fire unit vehicles 
positioned with assistant regional officers and reinforcements are sent as and when 
required,” he added. 
According to the IAF officials, the plane was allowed 
to continue its flight towards 
China after Iranian agencies asked 
the force 
to “disregard the 
threat”. 
“The Indian Air 
Force jets were scrambled 
after the information was 
received and we were following it maintaining a safe 
distance as per the standard operating procedures. 
However, the aircraft was 
allowed to continue on its 
flight towards China after 
Iranian agencies asked us 
to disregard the threat,” the 
sources said, adding that 
they continued to follow the China-bound flight closely 
till the time it left Indian airspace. 
After an alert was triggered, 
permission was not granted 
for the plane to land in Delhi 
and the plane was instructed 
by Air Traffic Control (ATC) 
to divert to Jaipur. Reportedly the pilot refused to divert 
the plane following which 
Indian Air Force jets were 
scrambled to intercept and 
escort the plane. 
Data from Filghtradar24 
showed the plane reducing 
altitude over the Delhi-Jaipur airspace for a brief peri -od before it was seen making 
its way out of Indian airspace.  
According to ATC sources, 
Mahan Air requested for immediate landing at Delhi airport but Delhi ATC directed 
it to head to Jaipur Airport. 
The pilots of the Iranian carrier did not do so and eventually left Indian airspace. 
The nature of the bomb 
threat is still unclear. 
Meanwhile, the IAF said 
that Mahan Air flight had 
exited the Indian airspace.  
“On October 3, intimation 
was received of a bomb 
scare on an aircraft bearing Iranian registration, when 
it was transiting through 
Indian airspace. IAF fighter 
aircraft were scrambled, 
which followed the aircraft 
at a safe distance. Aircraft 
was offered the option to 
land at Jaipur & then, at 
Chandigarh. But the pilot 
declared his unwillingness 
to divert to either of them. 
After a while intimation 
was received from Tehran 
to disregard the bomb scare. 
Aircraft continued on its 
journey towards final destination,” the Indian Air Force 
said in a statement.

*
Rohit Rohilla

The Punjab assembly on 
Monday ‘unanimously’ 
passed the confidence motion moved by Chief Minister 
Bhagwant Mann on 27 September, even as Congress 
workers staged a walkout.
The BJP members had 
already announced they 
would boycott the session. 
After a lengthy discussion 
on the confidence motion, 
Speaker Kultar Singh Sandhwan, put it to vote. He 
asked MLA ’s who were in 
support to raise their hands 
and then called on the nonsupporting MLA’s. Announcing the results, 
Sadhwan said that 91 AAP 
MLAs supported the motion.  
He claimed that one of the 
three SAD MLAs present 
and the lone BSP MLA did 
not oppose the motion.
No Congress, BJP or Independent MLA was present 
in the house at the time of 
voting.  AAP has 92 MLAs, 
including the Speaker, in the 
House.  “So, 93 MLAs have 
supported the motion and 
none are against it. “Thus, 
the motion is unanimously 
passed,” the Speaker said.
In the 117-member Punjab 
Assembly, the AAP has 92 
members, Congress 18, SAD 
3, BJP 2, 
BSP 1, and 1 is an 
Independent.
The assembly 
had taken up the confidence 
motion after AAP MLAs hit 
out at the BJP over “operation Lotus’, alleging a bid to 
topple the six-month old 
government. The AAP has 
claimed that 10 of its MLAs 
were approached by the BJP 
with an offer of Rs. 25 crore 
for toppling the Mann-led 
Punjab government.
However, as the debate began, Congress MLAs staged 
a walkout, demanding that 
they be given time to speak 
and raise issues during the 
zero hour.

*
Gautam Lahiri

Rajasthan chief 
minister Ashok Gehlot met Rajya Sabha mP 
mallikarjun kharge, 
just before filing his nomination for the post of congress 
president. According 
to the party insiders, kharge gave Ghelot a patient hearing and allowed him 
to become a contender for the post of congress president. Ghelot also got into 
sadfishing by telling him that his arch rival Sachin Pilot was not supporting him. kharge reportedly told 
him that it was wrong 
on his part to openly say that he didn’t want to step down as 
chief minister, while 
being considered the future party president. Ghelot was part of the Udaipur «chintan Shivar» where 
the principal of ‘one party, one post’ was pronounced.
adhir likely 
to lose ls  
leader’s Post
the congress party›s 
presidential candidate, mallikarjun kharge, 
has made it difficult 
for congress lok Sabha leader Adhir Ranjan chowdhury to 
continue with his post.  
kharge resigned im-mediately as leader of the opposition at Rajya Sabha after filing his 
nomination for the 
party’s  top post. the move was in line with the party’s principal 
of ‘one person, one 
post’.   currently, Adhir 
is also the Pradesh congress President of west Bengal. A group 
of state legislators has already demanded that he be removed from his position.But 
congress leaders in 
the national capital want him to be re-moved from the post of the party’s lok Sabha 
leader.
rebel tMc  MP 
under cloud
the seat of rebel 
trinamool congress 
(tmc) mP Sisir 
Adhikari hangs in 
the balance after the lok Sabha speaker referred the matter 
of his legitimacy to 
the privilege commit-tee. Also, tmc lok Sabha leader Sudip Bandopadhyay  has 
officially lodged a 
complaint against Adhikari for being biassed towards  Pm  
modi during the last assembly polls in Bengal. the speaker 
referred the matter to 
the privilege commit-tee, after hearing both the sides. the com-mittee is scheduled to 
meet on 12th october. 
BJP enjoys a majority in the privilege com-mittee and the tmc  
has no representa-tion in it. therefore, it might be difficult to disqualify him.

*
Union Home Minister Amit 
Shah, who is on a three-day visit to Jammu and Kashmir, on Monday met people 
from different communities including Gujjar-Bakarwal, 
Rajput, Pahari and Jammu Sikh Community. 
During his visit to the Union 
Territory, the Home Minister 
will review the security situation, attend public meetings and lay the foundations of 
various development projects. Shah will hold a couple of meetings with the leaders 
of the J-K 
unit of the BJP on 
Monday. 
However, he will 
make a special visit by offer-ing prayers in the Mata Vaishnodevi Temple on 4 October morning, which will be his first visit to the holy shrine 
after being appointed as the 
Union Home Minister. 
This visit will be on the 9th 
day of the ongoing Navaratri 
festival. 
He will later address a public meeting at Rajouri around 
one-and-half hours after visiting the Vaishno Devi temple. 
The Minister will further 
launch development proj-ects and also lay foundation stones for various projects at Convention Centre in Jammu. 
Shah will then hold a public 
meeting in Rajouri and offer prayers at the Raghunath Temple in Jammu. 
He will also inspect various developmental projects in Jammu before proceeding to the Kashmir valley. Later 
in the evening, the Home 
Minister will hold a number of crucial meetings including the ones regarding the security situation in the region. 
On the second day of his 
visit on Wednesday (October 5), Shah will review the security situation in Jammu and Kashmir at a meeting that is 
slated to be held at Raj Bhavan in Srinagar. 
Lieutenant Governor of Jammu and Kashmir Manoj Sinha, top officials of the 
Army, paramilitary forces, state police and civil administration will take part in this high-level meeting expected 
to begin at 10 am. 
The Minister will later address a public meeting here at Baramulla around 11.30 am 
and will address the gather-ing. 
Before concluding his visit 
to the Union Territory, Shah will also launch and lay foundation stones for various development projects 
in Srinagar around 3.30 pm. 
Various programmes have 
been scheduled to take place 
during his visit to the valley including the ones which will be held by communities 
like Bakarwal and Gujjars to 
honour Shah on behalf of the Modi government for working for the welfare of these communities. 
In a surprising move, the 
Modi government recently nominated Ghulam Ali to 
the Rajya Sabha. Ali joined 
BJP in 2008 and hails from the Gujjar tribe. Several or-ganisational meetings are 
on the cards too including 
the state core group meeting and meeting with party MPs and MLAs. 
This is the second visit by 
Amit Shah to Jammu and 
Kashmir since the abrogation 
of article 370 by the Modi govt in August 2019. 

*
The Directorate of Enforcement (ED) on Monday raided 12 entities and seized Rs 
5.85 crore in a part-time job 
fraud case involving some Chinese persons and apps. 
The enforcement agency 
has conducted searches on 
12 firms located in Bengaluru. 
The ED said it has seized 
Rs 5.85 crore so far under 
section 17 of the Prevention of Money Laundering Act 
(PMLA), 2002. Investigation under PMLA revealed 
that gullible public mostly 
youth were cheated by some 
Chinese persons through a 
mobile App namely “Keepsharer” which promised them to give part-time 
jobs and collected money 
from them. These Chinese 
persons formed companies in India 
and recruited many Indians as directors, translators (for translating Mandarin to English and vice versa), HR 
Managers and Tele callers, according 
to an official statement released by the 
ED. 
They obtained the documents of 
Indian persons and opened bank accounts by using their documents. The 
accused Chinese persons developed a mobile App in the name of “Keepsharer” and started its advertisement 
through WhatsApp and Telegram by 
offering part-time job opportunities to 
the youth. This app was linked with an investment app. For registration on this app, 
they collected money from youth. Further, they collected money from the 
public also in the name of investment 
through this app. The youth were 
given the task of liking the videos of celebrities and uploading them on social 
media. 
When the task was completed, they 
used to pay Rs 20 per video and that 
will be credited in the “Keepsharer” 
wallet. For some time, money got credited to their wallet, and later on, the 
app was removed from the play store. 
Thus, the public was cheated with their 
investment amount and the remuneration to be paid which run into crores of 
rupees, the Directorate of Enforcement 
said. The money collected through the 
scam was routed from the bank accounts of some Bengaluru-based 
companies and then converted into cryptocurrency and transferred to 
China-based Crypto exchanges. 
All the transactions were under the 
control of Chinese persons through 
phone and WhatsApp groups. As per 
the chargesheet filed by the Police, out 
of 92 accused persons, six persons are citizens of China and Taiwan who were 
controlling the entire scam. Further investigation in the matter is in progress, 
the ED said. 
ED initiated money laundering investigation on the basis of one FIR 
registered in South CEN Police Station, 
Bengaluru City in the matter related to 
part-time job fraud. 


*
The Border Security Force 
(BSF) on Monday seized one abandoned Pakistani 
fishing boat from 'Harami 
Nala' creek area near Bhuj in Kutch of Gujarat, along 
the India-Pakistan maritime 
boundary, the force said.
The boat was found from 
'Harami Nala' around 6 am by BSF personnel who were 
patrolling in the area, a BSF 
official said. Some ice boxes, jerry cans and fishing nets 
were seized by the BSF personnel. However, the men on the boat managed to flee to-wards the Pakistan side.
"We seized a Pakistani fishing boat from 'Harami Nala' in 
Kutch of Gujarat around 6 am. 
A few people were seen on the boat, but they jumped into the water and swam towards the 
Pakistan side. Icebox, jerry 
can and fishing net have been 
seized by the BSF personnel 
from the abandoned boat," the BSF official said.
The Pakistani fishermen often flee to their side abandoning their boats after spotting BSF patrol units.
The authorities have barred 
Indian fishermen from enter-ing the creek area, however, Pakistani fishermen enter the Indian side to catch fish.
The 'Harami Nala' is also 
known as the Sir Creek area. The area is a 22 km long and approximately 8 km wide marshy patch that is navigable 
most of the time.
Earlier in June this year, the 
BSF had seized three Pakistani boats from 'Harami 
Nala'.
In May too, the BSF apprehended over nine Pakistani fishermen and seized a similar number of Pakistani  
fishing boats in different operations.

*
In the Ankita Bhandari murder case, the post-mortem 
report filed by the panel of 
doctors and the pieces of evidence collected by the SIT 
are matching, SIT in-charge 
DIG P Renuka Devi told ANI on Monday
"The evidence collected so far 
in the investigation of Ankita's 
murder are matching with the 
post-mortem report. There is nothing different between the 
two," said SIT in charge, DIG P 
Renuka Devi who is conducting the probe. P Renuka Devi 
told ANI that talks have also 
been held with the doctors regarding the post-mortem report. She added, "the panel of doctors conducting the post-mortem has also been shown the scene of the incident. Reports have been taken from the 
doctors about both the spot and the post-mortem."
"The post-mortem of Ankita 
done by the panel of doctors has also been video-graphed," 
DIG P Renuka Devi said.
19-year-old Ankita was 
missing for at least six days before the Uttarakhand administration recovered her 
body from the Chilla canal 
in Rishikesh on September 
24. Son of expelled BJP leader Vinod Arya, Pulkit Arya 
was arrested in the case for 
allegedly pushing her into the canal following an altercation. Besides Pulkit Arya, two more people were arrested in the case.
"After interrogating the 
witnesses related to the incident and the statement given by the accused- under police custody- it is found that all are 
matching among themselves", 
Renuka Devi added.
Asked about VIPs visiting Vanantara resort, where Ankita was working as a 
receptionist, she said that 
after interrogating the staff working in the resort, it was 
found that there is a different category of rooms in the resort, referred to as top class 
rooms and those who stay in 
those rooms are generally called 'VIPs'.

*
Aiming to gain the stature 
of a national leader in the 
run-up to the 2024 Lok 
Sabha elections, Telangana Rashtra Samithi (TRS) supremo and Chief Minister K Chandrashekhar Rao 
is likely to announce the name of his national party 
on 5 October. 
According to the sources, 
it is strongly believed that 
CM KCR will announce the 
name of his national party 
on the occasion of Dussehra. TRS party’s meeting 
will be held on Dussehra 
at 11 am in Telangana Bhavan here, an official release 
from K Chandrashekar Rao’s office said on Monday.  
CM KCR said that the 
notification for the bye-election to Munugodu Assembly would not affect the general body meeting organised on Dussehra and 
the members need not get 
confused. 
“ As announced earlier, the 
party general meeting will be held at 11 am on October 5 in Telangana Bhavan. Leaders are requested to attend the meeting within the 
specified time,” said KCR. 
So there are speculations 
that KCR, may reveal the details of his approach towards national politics after the meeting. 
It is also believed that a delegation of TRS party 
leaders will leave for Delhi to change the name of the 
party. It is also believed that KCR will be addressing a 
public gathering on 9 October  in the national capital. 
A TRS leader Sreedhar 
Reddy said, “The people of the Nation are looking for 
a strong National platform as NDA failed in all aspects 
of governance. KCR spoke 
about the national platforms and going to the national level.” 
Reddy said the Gujarat 
model failed utterly and 
the country is looking for 
a strong alternative. “Wait 
and watch for the CM KCR to announce the name of the 
national party,” said Reddy. 

*
All India Congress 
Committee interim 
president Sonia 
Gandhi arrived in Mysuru 
on Monday.
She is scheduled to join the 
party's Bharat Jodo Y atra 
led by Rahul Gandhi which is presently in its Karnataka 
leg. According to the sources, 
Gandhi will stay at a resort in the Kodagu district for two days before joining the Y atra 
on October 6.
Priyanka Gandhi will take 
part in the Y atra the next day, according to the Karnataka Congress.
Priyanka was expected to join the Y atra earlier but due 
to some reasons she couldn't 
join it, the sources said earlier.
It will be the first time when 
all three Gandhis will be present in the Bharat Jodo Y atra which started from Kanyakumari on September 7 and has travelled from Tamil Nadu, 
Kerala and will cover 511 kilometres of the area in 21 days.
The march was aimed to 
cover as many as 12 States in five months. It recently reached Karnataka on Friday (September 30) and will 
be here for the next 21 days 
before moving north.
According to Congress, the 
'Bharat Jodo Y atra' is being held to combat the divisive politics of the BJP-led Centre 
and to awaken the people of 
the country to the dangers of economic inequalities, social 
polarisation and political centralisation.
The Y atra includes Padayatras, rallies, and public meetings.
The Congress suffered a debacle in the assembly polls held earlier this year and the 
Y atra is seen as an attempt to 
rally the party rank and file for the upcoming electoral 
battles. 

*
Congress leader Shashi Tharoor on Monday said that 
with two consecutive losses 
in the Lok Sabha elections, 
there is a need for a "renewed and reinvigorated" party to take on the chal-lenge of the ruling Bharatiya 
Janata Party at the Centre.
Tharoor is currently in 
Hyderabad campaigning for 
the upcoming presidential 
polls of the party in which 
he is up against the veteran leader Mallikarjun Kharge. 
"This election is about how 
Congress should be best equipped to take on the ruling govt today, which is BJP. 
We have lost two elections... We need a renewed, reinvigorated Congress party where 
it is mobilized effectively to 
take on this challenge," Tha -roor said while speaking to the media.
He denied the existence of 
the G-23 group within the Congress (which wrote to Sonia Gandhi seeking reforms 
in the party), and said that it was a "media idea".
"There is no G-23 group. 
There never was, it was a media idea. As far as I can tell you, a couple of seniors wrote the letter. They invited 
a large number of people to 
support them. They told me that by phone they have contacted over a hundred peo-ple who have extended sup-port. There was lockdown in 2020. Only 23 peo-ple were 
available in Delhi to sign it at 
that time," he said.Earlier on Sunday, Tharoor said that he represents a change in the party which a leader like Mallikarjun 
Kharge can't bring about.
"We are not enemies, it's 
not war. Some people are 
saying that Kharge Ji is a se-nior leader, and why don't I 
get out of the race for him? 
I respect Kharge Ji, but it's 
a poll for our party's future. 
There are differences in the way we want to take the party for-ward," Tharoor said.
"Kharge Ji is a part of our 
leadership, and other than the Gandhi family he is 
among the top three leaders of the Congress party. But 
leaders like him can't bring 
change and will continue the existing system. I will bring the change as per the expectations of party workers," Tharoor further said.

*
RJD leader Manoj Jha hit 
out at Prashant Kishor on 
Monday over his remark 
that "nothing has changed" in Bihar since 1990, saying 
the political strategist was 
raising unimportant issues but silent on pressing issues 
like granting special status 
to Bihar.
Jha said that he thought 
Kishor would raise the issue of the central government's repeated denials to give spe-cial status to Bihar. "Instead, 
he is appearing to raise issues that are not important and silent on those he should speak on." "I don't need to understand rocket science to understand Prashant Kishor's script," he added.
Kishor, who launched his 
state-wide padyatra from West Champaran district on 
Sunday, attacked all political parties that have ruled 
Bihar, saying the state has 
not changed since 1990. He 
said people here are bound to migrate to other states in 
search of employment.
"When Jharkhand was 
separated, what did Bihar get after that? The foundation of our industry was strong because of 
Jharkhand," Jha added.

*
Nestled between the mighty Karakoram and Himalayan mountain ranges lies Turtuk, a remote village, sparsely inhabited, and close to the Line of Control.
From this village, the 
Pakistani posts are clearly visible. This remote outpost 
of India has now become 
a shining example of the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan. 
The villagers see this not 
only as a Cleanliness campaign but also one which integrates them with the rest 
of India. For the villagers, 
the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan is not just a campaign, but 
they see it as a medium to integrate them with the rest 
of India.
Tourism to this remote 
outpost of India opened in 2010, after that the village 
started getting plastic waste 
and other pollutants
Realising that their fragile 
relationship with the environment was at stake the local people took it upon 
themselves to implement 
the Swachh Bharat Abhiyan in the most remote part of 
the Nation.
The tourism season in 
Turtuk commenced largely 
between April to September 
and this year it witnessed 
a large number of visitors from across the country and 
even from outside the coun -try as it was opened after 
two years of the pandemic.
Notwithstanding the 
boost to the economy of Turtuk from tourism, the 
plastic and other non-biodegradable waste accumulation was significantly high. Therefore, keeping 
environmental concerns in mind the owner of a local 
guest house Hashmat-ullah and Ms Portia Conrad, a 
research scholar from New 
Delhi took the initiative of 
curating a cleanliness drive in Turtuk village.
Conrad was visiting Turtuk for an ongoing research project on the Balti community. School children of government schools and Turtuk Valley School also 
participated in the initiative.
Despite being a holiday 
and slated exams, 75-plus children gathered to collect 
gar-bage on the occasion of Gandhi Jayanti. All the students were provided with 
masks before the drive and 
posters were made together for awareness amongst the 
villagers.


*
India has received unusual 
praise from Saudi Arabia's World Muslim League for 
its policy of non-violence and 
tolerance towards all.
The Mecca-based World 
Muslim League timed its praise for India's Global and 
National outlook on Gandhi 
Jayanti — something which 
Saudi Arabia-based Islamic 
Group has never done before. Hailing Mahatma Gandhi for 
being a pioneer of the philosophy of non-violence, the Muslim World League, for the first time, paid tribute to Gandhi on his 153rd birth anniversary and said that the day should 
be an occasion to spread the 
message of non-violence internationally."Today, October 2, we celebrate Gandhi Jayanti to honour the birthday and remember the life of Mahatma 
Gandhi, a visionary, freedom fighter, and follower of non-violence. Today also is the International Day of Non- Vio-lence," Muslim World League 
wrote in a tweet.
It added that October 2 
should be used as an oppor-tune day to spread the message of non-violence on an international level. "Every year, 
the world celebrates the International Day Of Non-Violence, 
celebrating the life of the pioneer of the non-violence philosophy, Mahatma Gandhi 
Jayanti. An occasion to spread the message of non-violence 
internationally through education and public awareness," 
it tweeted.

*
The Supreme Court on Monday stated that the petitions 
seeking relief from pre-arrest 
bail are not money recovery 
proceedings, while maintaining anticipatory bail for a 
husband and his relatives and 
annulling the conditions of 
depositing money.
A bench of Justices Dinesh 
Maheshwari and Bela M 
Trivedi granted an anticipatory bail plea to the husband 
and parents-in-law in the matter on furnishing a bond of Rs 
25,000.“Even if we take the submissions of the learned counsel 
for the contesting respondent 
at their face value, we are 
clearly of the view that, in essence, the petitions seeking relief from pre-arrest bail are not 
money recovery proceedings 
and, ordinarily, there is no justification for adopting such a 
course that, for the purpose 
of being given the concession 
of pre-arrest bail, the person 
concerned apprehending arrest has to make payment,” the 
court said.
The petitioners were represented by advocates Amit Kumar, Ali Mushtaq Nawazish, Naeem Ilyas, and Neelam 
Singh, all advocates on record.
The Jharkhand High Court 
had earlier proceeded to grant 
the concession of pre-arrest 
bail to the appellants on the 
condition of their furnishing a 
bond in the sum of Rs 25,000 
and depositing a demand draft 
in the sum of Rs 7 ,50,000 as 
an ad-interim victim compensation.
The petitioners had challenged the condition of depositing Rs 7 ,50,000 as a condition of bail in the Supreme 
Court. The top court noted 
that the said condition of depositing a sum of Rs.7 ,50,000 for the purpose of granting the 
relief of pre-arrest bail could 
not be approved and else, the 
order granting bail deserves to 
be maintained.
The court said, “Hence, we 
are of the view that no useful 
purpose would be served by 
sending the matter for reconsideration to the High Court 
and the order impugned deserves to be modified appropriately in these appeals only.”
The petitioner in the matter is facing a complaint case 
under Sections 498A of the 
Indian Penal Code (IPC) and 
Section 4 of the Dowry Prohibition Act. 

*
The Rouse Avenue 
Court on Monday dismissed the statutory 
bail plea of Kapil Wadhawan 
and his brother Dheeraj, former Dewan Housing Finance 
Corporation Limited (DHFL) 
promoters, arrested by the 
Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) in connection with 
the multi-crore bank loan 
scam case. The two accused 
were arrested in the current 
FIR on 19 July this year.
Statutory bail, also known 
as default bail, is a right to 
bail that arises when an investigation into a person in 
judicial custody fails to be completed within a specified 
time frame.
According to the plea, bail 
as agitated as a matter of an 
indefeasible right for accused 
Kapil Wadhawan as a consequence of the CBI allegedly 
failing to file the chargesheet 
against him and co-accused 
Dheeraj Wadhawan within 
60 days of their arrest.
Special Judge Vishal Gogne 
in an order passed on 30 September 2022, while dismissing the bail petition, stated 
that the filing of the present 
chargesheet in the present investigation shall be governed 
by Section 167(2)(a)(i) CrPC 
which provides for a maximum period of 90 days. Since 
the period of 90 days has not yet expired in the present 
investigation, which also relates to Section 409 IPC, applicants Kapil Wadhawan 
and Dheeraj Wadhawan are 
not entitled to statutory bail 
under Section 167(2) CrPC. 
Both applications are dismissed, said the court.
Based on a complaint made 
by Union Bank of India alleging that Dewan Housing 
Finance Corporation Ltd. 
(DHFL), Kapil Wadhawan, 
the then CMD, Dheeraj 
Wadhwan, the then Director, 
both DHFL and the other accused persons entered into a 
criminal conspiracy to cheat 
the consortium of 17 banks 
led by Union Bank of India, 
and in pursuance of the said criminal conspiracy, the said 
accused, Kapil Wadhwan 
and others, induced the 
consortium banks to sanction huge loans aggregating 
Rs 42,871.42 crore.
Much of this amount was 
allegedly syphoned off and 
misappropriated by alleged 
falsification of the books 
of the DHFL and dishonest default in repayment of 
the legitimate dues of the 
said consortium banks. The 
complainant alleged that a 
wrongful loss of Rs 34,615 
crore was caused to the consortium banks in as the quantification of the outstanding 
dues was concerned as on 31 
July 2020, alleged the Central 
Bureau of Investigation.

*
The project for the Chennai 
Port to Maduravoyal corridor 
in Tamil Nadu is planned to 
be completed by December 
2024. In a series of tweets, 
Union Minister for Road 
Transport and Highways Nitin Gadkari tweeted, “Working towards providing seam -less multimodal connectivity 
in New India, the project for 
Chennai Port to Maduravoyal 
corridor in Tamil Nadu has 
been developed at an estimated cost of Rs 5800 Crore.”
The Minister said the proposed elevated stretch of 20.5 
km will be developed in 4 sections and will start inside the 
Chennai Port and end after 
the Maduravoyal interchange.Gadkari added that the project will be completed by 
December 2024, serve as a 
dedicated freight corridor for 
Chennai-bound port traffic, 
increase the handling capacity of Chennai Port by 48% 
and subsequently reduce the 
waiting time at the port by 6 
hours.
The project will be developed under the PM GatiShakti National Master 
Plan (PMGS-NMP), which 
was launched on 13 October 
2021, to provide multimodal 
connectivity infrastructure to 
various economic zones. 
The Cabinet Committee on 
Economic Affairs (CCEA) 
has accorded approval for 
the implementation of PM 
GatiShakti National Master 
Plan on 21 October 2021.

*
A Delhi Court on Monday 
extended Vijay Nair, communication strategist of the 
Aam Aadmi Party (AAP), 
to a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) remand till 
October 6.
He was recently arrested 
for his alleged role in the 
irregularities pertaining to 
the excise policy of the Delhi 
government. Nair was produced before the court by 
the CBI at the end of his remand granted earlier.
While deciding to extend 
the custodial remand period 
till October 6, 2022, Special Judge Raghubir Singh on 
Monday said, “the allegations as appearing in the FIR 
are serious and a detailed 
investigation is required for 
the purpose of arriving at a logical conclusion in the due 
course. It would be in the 
interest of justice to allow 
further police custody of accused Vijay Nair up till the 
6th of this month on which 
date, he shall be produced 
before the Court concerned 
during the court hours.”
The Court noted that the 
FIR reflects allegations of 
commission of a number of 
irregularities in the framing 
and implementing of the Excise Policy of the NCT of Delhi for the years 2021–2022 
and various known and unknown persons have been 
shown to be instrumental 
therein at various stages, allegedly performing various roles and undue favours to 
the licensees for obtaining 
illegal pecuniary benefits.
Senior Advocate Ramesh 
Gupta, along with Advocate 
Mohd Irshad, contended on 
behalf of the accused that the 
only plausible ground being 
pleaded/argued on behalf 
of the prosecution is that 
the accused did not cooperate during the course of the 
investigation and that there 
was no need for further extension of police custody as 
he had already undergone 
the same for 05 days.
Recently, the special court 
of MK Nagpal also sent Sameer Mahendru to ED remand till October 6, 2022. 

*
RAVINDER MALIK 

The Government of Haryana 
has set up fourth Roundtable Conference on the Global 
City under the Haryana 
Chief Minister, Manohar Lal 
Khattar, on 3 October, 2022 
at Dubai in Gurugram. This project aims at redefining the 
concept of urban development and what cities of the future shall look like through 
its sustainability focused future oriented infrastructure 
planning and design. 
The CM said “The Global 
City has been designed by a 
team of the brightest minds 
in planning and engineering to offer an unprecedented 
urban living experience while 
preserving the surrounding nature and giving shape to the 
cherished goals of sustainable 
cities and communities.”
Vikas Gupta, MD HSIIDC 
highlighted that the Global City Project is a mixed land 
use project envisioned to be 
developed as a “City within a City” over approx. 1080 acres 
at the heart of Gurugram’s upcoming Residential and 
Commercial hub in Sectors 
36B, 37A and 37B and along 
the 8-lane under construction Dwarka Expressway. 
Haryana Chief Minister, 
Mahohar Lal spoke about his vision of developing the 
Project as the Central Business District of Gurugram 
with an intensive focus on modern technology fields, future oriented industries, low carbon green infrastructure 
and ease of living. 
The Chief Minister was accompanied by Deputy Chief Minister,  Dushyant Chautala, Chief Principal Secretary to Chief Minister, DS Dhesi, Additional Chief Sec -retary, Industries and Commerce Department,  Anand 
Mohan Sharan, Principal 
Secretary to Chief Minister and & Chairman HSIIDC, V 
Umashankar , MD HSIIDC  
Vikas Gupta.The Real estate Company representatives 
included the top leadership 
from leading real estate de-velopers and funds of UAE such as Sobha Realty, Nakheel, Emaar, Lulu Group, DP World, Sharaf Group, 
Ellington Properties, Dubai 
Investments, Gulf Islamic Investments, Al-Marjan, AlHamra, Tabreed, Danube 
Properties, Dalands Proper-ties and Tabreed amongst others.

*
PGIMER reached yet another significant milestone 
after being named one of 
the World’s Best Specialized 
Hospitals 2023 based on the 
result of an independent 
analysis by Newsweek and Statista.
The letter from Nancy 
Cooper, Global editor in Chief, Newsweek, and Dr. Friedrich Schwnadt, CEO, 
Statista GmbH congratulating Director PGIMER on 
this accomplishment stated 
that the ranking was published in the print edition of Newsweek Magazine that 
was enclosed as well as on 
the Newsweek website on September 14.
Prof. Vivek Lal, Director 
PGIMER  complimented  each member of the 
PGIMER family for their 
continuous support and incessant efforts in achieving this feat Expressing his 
gratification, the Director said, “ A strong focus on patient outcomes,  an academic 
culture, a compassionate mindset and an inspiring environment for young tal-ents are the enabling factors 
over decades that makes 
PGIMER an institute par 
excellence and the credit for 
creating all these enabling factors goes to peerless team 
of PGIMER.”
PGIMER bagged this distinct honour for specialising 
in the fields of Cardiology 
and Endocrinology based 
on the parameters including Reputation score, Accreditation score and PROM (Patient-Reported Outcome Measures) survey score taken into consideration.
Newsweek and Statista 
invited more than 40,000 
medical experts-including 
doctors, hospital managers and health care professionals-to participate in online surveys that allowed them to recommend and assess various hospitals within their 
respective specializations.

*
Taruni Gandhi

Punjab Police busted 
Pakistan’s InterServices Intelligence 
(ISI) backed drone-based 
Khalistan Tiger Force 
(KTF) terror module and apprehended two of its operatives from Chamkaur Sahib area, said Director 
General of Police (DGP) 
Punjab, Gaurav Y adav on Sunday.
According to Punjab Police, the terror module is being operated by Canada-based terrorist/gangster 
Arshdeep Singh alias Arsh 
Dala, who is a close associate of KTF’s Canada-based 
chief Hardeep Singh Nijjar. 
Those arrested have been identified as Veeja Singh 
alias Gagan alias Gaggu, a 
resident of Chand Nava vil-lage in Moga and Ranjodh 
Singh alias Jyoti, a resident 
of Ganji Gulab Singh Wala village in Moga. The Police 
also recovered two illegal 
weapons including a 0.22 bore revolver and 0.32 bore pistol along with 21 live cartridges from their possession.
The development came 
four days after Police had 
recovered an AK-47 assault rifle along with two magazines and 60 live cartridges 
from a pinpointed location 
at the paddy fields of village 
Arifke in Ferozepur.
Police investigations revealed that the consignment was dropped using a drone on the direction 
of terrorist/gangster Arsh 
Dala and was intended to be retrieved by Veeja Singh and Ranjodh Singh from Arifke village.
Punjab Director General 
of Police (DGP) Gaurav 
Y adav said that after the recovery of the weapons from Ferozepur, an intelligenceled operation was launched across the state to nab the 
accused persons. Acting 
on inputs, Rupnagar Police has managed to arrest both 
the accused persons from 
Chamkaur Sahib area dur-ing the intervening night of 
Saturday and Sunday.
DGP Y adav said that during preliminary investiga -tions, arrested persons confessed that they had gone 
to Arifke village to retrieve 
this consignment on directions of terrorist/gangster Arsh Dala but could not find it, and later, it was recovered by the Ferozepur Police on the information of a field owner.
“Both accused have also 
confessed to having received few drone-based 
weapon consignments to further deliver them at spe-cific locations as directed 
by Canada-based Terrorist/
Gangster Arsh Dala, which was to be used further for 
major target killings to disturb communal harmony of the state,” said the DGP.
An FIR has been registered under section 153A of 
the Indian Penal Code (IPC) 
and section 25 of the Arms 
Act at Chamkaur Sahib po-lice station.
Senior Superintendent 
of Police (SSP), Rupnagar, Sandeep Garg said that 
further investigations are 
underway and more arrests are expected soon.

*
Prime Minister Narendra Modi will visit Himachal Pradesh on October 
5 where he will inaugurate 
the All India Institute of 
Medical Sciences (AIIMS) in Bilaspur as well as lay the foundation stone of projects 
worth over Rs 3,650 crore.
According to Prime Minister’s Office (PMO), AIIMS Bilaspur constructed at a cost of more than Rs 1470 
crore, is a state-of-the-art 
hospital with 18 speciality and 17 super speciality departments, 18 modular oper-ation theatres and 750 beds 
with 64 ICU beds. Spread 
over 247 acres, the hospital is equipped with 24 hours 
emergency and dialysis facilities, modern diagnostic 
machines like ultrasonogJ -raphy, CT scan, MRI etc, 
Amrit Pharmacy and Jan 
Aushadhi Kendra and also 
a 30 bedded AYUSH block.
The Hospital has also set up the Centre for Digital Health 
to provide health services in 
the tribal and inaccessible 
tribal areas of Himachal 
Pradesh.

*
Rohit Rohilla

The Aam Aadmi Party 
(AAP) government led by 
Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann has won the confidence vote in the Punjab 
Assembly. On September 
27 , Bhagwant Mann moved 
a confidence motion in the state assembly, two days 
after Governor Banwarilal 
Purohit gave his nod to convene it.
On Monday, the motion 
was passed as Congress MLAs staged a walk out in protest.
However, the Governor’s 
assent had come following 
days of squabble between Raj Bhavan and the AAP 
government over holding 
a session. After a lengthy discussion on the confidence motion, speaker Kultar Singh Sandhwan put it 
to vote. A total of 91 AAP 
MLAs – out of 92 AAP members – supported the 
motion. The motion was 
moved after the Congress MLAs were marshalled out for disrupting the proceedings while the BJP legislators had walked out of the 
House.
The motion was moved by 
Chief Minister Bhagwant Mann on the opening day 
of the assembly session on 
September 27 and then he targeted the BJP over its alleged ‘Operation Lotus’ and 
the Congress for allegedly being hand-in-glove with 
the saffron party.
Mann had then called the 
BJP “arrogant” and asked why does it feel that it should have a government everywhere.
He had alleged that the 
AAP MLAs in Punjab had received calls and were offered money for toppling the government and asserted 
that AAP MLAs were not 
for sale.
The BJP had accused the 
AAP of “betraying” Governor Banwarilal Purohit and 
running away from discussion on burning issues of the 
state.
The Congress had also 
questioned the AAP’s government’s move of bringing 
the confidence motion while 
stating that no rule in the 
Punjab Vidhan Sabha has allowed the ruling party to 
bring such a motion.
Later, the AAP Punjab 
unit’s official handle tweeted 
that “Operation Lotus” had 
failed in the border state.

*
In order to provide assistance to sugarcane farmers, Punjab Chief Minister 
Bhagwant Mann on Monday announced a Rs 20 per 
quintal hike in the purchase 
price of sugarcane in the 
state from the existing Rs 360 to Rs 380 per quintal, said a statement from the chief minister’s office.
Announcing this on the 
floor of the Punjab Assembly, CM Mann said, 
“The farmers will get an 
additional Rs 20 per quintal under State Agreed Price (SAP) of sugarcane 
as compared to last year.” 
With this decision, the state government will spend additional Rs 200 crore annually to benefit the farmers.
“The farmers of the state eagerly want to adopt sugarcane crop under crop diversification, but they 
are hesitant for it due to 
lack of adequate price and timely payment of the crop. 
At present sugarcane is 
cultivated on just 1.25 lakh hectares of land in Punjab, 
while the total crushing 
capacity of sugar mills was around 2.50 lakh hectares. This is why the state government has decided 
to enhance the price to 
supplement the income of farmers,” Bhagwant Mann 
added.
Informing the house 
about the present status of 
the payments, Chief Minister said that the Cooperative Sugar Mills have already paid the entire dues of the 
farmers but two private 
sugar mills have not paid 
the dues yet.

*
A film crew entered the 
premises of Gurdwara Panja Sahib in Punjab 
province of Pakistan while 
wearing shoes and shot a 
movie without permission 
that has outraged the Sikh community in the country, 
Bharatiya Janata Party leader Manjinder Singh Sirsa 
claimed, sharing a video of the incident.
“Blasphemous actions 
continue in Pakistan: Shar-ing a video of BEADABI 
in Gurdwara #PanjaSahib, 
where a film crew was al-lowed to shoot for a movie 
in Gurdwara premises. 
Earlier we saw similar pictures of frivolous acts in premises of Gurudwara 
Kartarpur Sahib,” Sirsa 
wrote while sharing the 
video. He shared a video 
message on his Twitter handle condemning the act, saying, “ A film crew who 
were shooting a film inside 
the Gurudwara Panja Singh on September 29, entered while wearing shoes, which angered the devotees. One 
of them tangled with the 
crew and recorded the incident. When the devotee 
complained about it, the 
Pakistan government de-tained that person despite taking action against the 
culprit.”
The BJP leader said that 
a local Sikh has informed 
that ever since the devotee reported the event, that person is missing, and the 
locals have been threatened 
against sharing the video of the incident.

*
Taruni Gandhi

Punjabi singer Alfaaz’s health 
condition is stable after he was admitted to a hospital 
in Mohali on Saturday night, 
police said on Monday.The singer was rushed to a private hospital after he was rammed by a tempo outside 
an eatery Landran-Banur 
Road in Mohali. The accused is now arrested by Mohali 
police for which Honey Singh 
thanked the Punjab Police.
SP, Akshdeep Singh Aulakh told ANI, “Day before yesterday, Alfaaz was having dinner at a Dhaba, where a former employee was having 
an argument with worker 
Vicky because of some pending dues. The ex employee, 
Vicky, tried to flee from the 
dhaba with the owner’s tempo. Alfaaz was standing outside the eatery and the headlights of the tempo were not working properly so he rammed the tempo into the singer, after that he was taken to the hospital and his 
now his condition is much 
better. Vicky managed to escape from the location. “ 
Vicky has been booked under sections 279, 337 , and 338 
of the Indian Penal Code at the Sohana Police Station. 
“Vicky belongs to Raipur 
Rani, Haryana, and a case has been registered against him at 
Sohna Police station but No 
previous criminal records of Vicky have been revealed so 
far,” he added.

*
The Bandipora police, led 
by Senior Superintendent 
of Police, Mohammad Zahid, have taken the scourge of drugs seriously, while the 
DSP Headquarters, Shafat Mohmad, has put the responsibility of this task on 
his shoulders to fight this 
battle.
While giving details, the 
district police chief, Mohammad Zahid, said that 58 
NDPS cases were registered 
since 2021 and 82 drug peddlers, including some very 
infamous peddlers, have 
been arrested.
He said that 14.5 gm of 
brown sugar, 22,281 spasmoproxyvon tablets, 1,534 codeine bottles, xxx rum bottles, around 2 KG of charas, 
32 KG of charas powder, 30 
Tramafar injections, 11 KG of bung leaves, and 4,500 poppy straw have been re-covered till now.
A senior police official 
said that recently, police had gotten information that the young students were being involved in the curse of 
drugs by taking the codeine 
bottles. 
The police raided a house 
in the Kuloosa locality and 
about 1,300 bottles were recovered from there. 
Two drug peddlers were 
also arrested and were found involved, along with school children.
The police informed us 
that on September 28, they arrested a notorious female 
drug peddler identified as 
Posha Begum. 
She was evading arrest after managing to escape during a raid that happened on 
25 August. 
The police registered an 
FIR against her at the Bandipora Police Station. She is the wife of Khursheed Ahmad Waza of Ward Number 5 Bandipora.
In the days before she was 
arrested, police said that the different teams of the police station were constituted after getting specific information regarding her presence 
in Bandipora. 
The information was corroborated with technical assistance. Different locations in the district were raided. 
She was produced before the Honourable Court Bandipo-ra and was granted judicial remand.
People have expressed 
their gratitude to the police for this action and said that 
similar actions should be 
taken in the future.
Earlier, last week the district police organised an 
anti-drug awareness programme on the “Prevention of drug addiction” under 
the banner of Nasha Mukht 
Abhiyan Diwas at police stations Pethkote and Aragam respectively.

*
Karnataka Chief Minister Basavaraj Bommai 
has said that “some divisive forces” were trying to divide people on the basis of language and rationality, but their attempts have failed because of Prime Minister Narendra Modi’s 
able leadership.
“The countrymen are watching some political parties which are indirectly, and some 
directly, supporting anti-national elements,” 
Bommai said, without elaborating. “In the 
name of language or rationality, some divisive forces are trying to divide the nation, 
but such attempts are foiled by the central 
government, PM Modi and Home Minister Amit Shah,” he said.
He also said that those playing politics with 
the nation’s security will not be spared.
While participating in the Dussehra festival at Gosai Mutt here Sunday, the chief minister called for an “agitation” on the lines of the one 
launched by the Maratha warrior Chhatrapati Shivaji.
“The need of the hour was to launch an agitation as done by Shivaji Maharaj to save the 
nation,” he said, adding, “The Gosai Mutt has the best pedigree in the country and it has the 
blessings of Bhavani Matha.”
He said Shivaji had extended his kingdom 
from the Vindhyas till Kanyakumari, but he 
had “given preference to local leaders”.
“The great Maratha warrior had shown 
that confidence is more important than the 
population in the kingdom, and that made 
him face the big Mughal Empire,” he said, 
adding that PM Modi is running the government on the ideals of Shivaji Maharaj.
Recently, Bommai said that by banning the 
PFI, the central government has sent out a strong message to all anti-national groups.

*
A 7-year-old boy was killed after the battery of an electric 
scooter exploded while it was being charged in Palghar on Sunday.
The incident occurred in the Vasai area of Palghar district. 
Following the incident, the boy, who was seriously injured, was shifted to a hospital where he succumbed to his injuries.
According to police, the deceased child was identified as 
Shabbir Shahnawaz. A case has been registered at Manikpur 
police station.
An investigation is underway.
The Fire Department said earlier on Wednesday that three 
people died and eight others were seriously injured in a fire due to a boiler explosion at a factory in the Vasai area of Palghar district.
The boiler exploded at Vasai Cos Power Engineering Limited Company. Over 50 employees were working in the factory when the explosion occurred. The incident took place at around 2:30 pm on Wednesday, and the sound of the explosion was heard from 1 to 2 km.
Fire brigade personnel rushed to the spot to put the fire 
under control. The injured were sent to the nearest hospital 
for treatment.

*
The Special National Investigation Agency (NIA) Court 
here sent Abdul Sathar, a 
Popular Front of India (PFI) 
leader, to five days of NIA custody for interrogation.
The NIA sought seven days 
of custody, but the court granted only five days. The 
NIA informed the Court that 
it needed to investigate PFI’s foreign funding.
Earlier, the court sent him 
to judicial custody till Octo-ber 20, but the NIA sought his custody on Friday and 
the Court granted it today.
Sathar, the State General 
Secretary before the PFI was dissolved, is the third 
accused in the case of UAPA, in which the NIA has registered after the ban. He was arrested last week by the NIA from Karunagappalli 
in the Kollam district.Last week, the court sent 11 
other PFI leaders to 21 days 
of judicial custody till October 20.
The PFI workers, who 
were booked under UAPA and arrested by the NIA last 
month from different locations in Kerala, were presented by the NIA in court 
after their seven days of custody came to an end on 30 
September.
In a major breakthrough 
linked to the largest-ever 
action against the Popular 
Front of India (PFI), the central investigating agencies 
have found inputs against 
the outfit for “organizing a 
training camp with the intent to cause disturbance 
during Prime Minster Narendra Modi’s visit to Bihar’s capital Patna on July 12 this 
year”.
The agencies also found 
details of numerous bank accounts of PFI.

*
Five people, including 
three children, have 
so far died after a fire 
broke out at a Durga Puja 
pandal in Uttar Pradesh’s 
Bhadoi district, police said on Monday.
The fire broke out on Sunday in Aurai town at the 
pandal during the Aarti session to mark the Saptami, or the seventh day of Navratri festivities. The Bhadohi 
DM, Gaurang Rathi, said 
today, “The death toll in the Bhadohi Durga Puja pandal fire incident has risen to five. Three children and two 
women have died.”
Of the five deceased, three 
people-one Jai Devi and her 
two grandchildren-belonged 
to the same family, which 
has left the family in a state of shock.
Jai Devi’s husband said, 
“ Along with my wife, three 
of her daughters-in-law 
and two grandchildren had 
gone to the pandal. While the woman and one of the children died in hospital, one 
more child died this morn -ing at home”.
The Bhadohi DM informed 
that a case has been registered against the President of the Durga Puja organisation committee of the pandal 
where the fire broke out.
The case has been registered against Baccha Y adav on charges of carelessness in maintaining the security 
system at the event. Other than him, cases have also 
been registered against other 
members of the organisation committee.
The DM of Bhadohi also 
informed that the SIT team has submitted its report. The reason for the fire has been found to be the heating of 
halogen. The SIT report also 
said that there was carelessness regarding the setting 
up of the electricity system 
in the pandal. Also, the material that was used in the 
construction of the pandal was flammable in nature.
Anil Kumar, the SP of 
Bhadohi, informed us on 
Monday that a case has been 
registered against Bacchja Y adav and other committee 
members because of carelessness in security at the event.

*
One person was arrested 
from Hyderabad on Monday 
on charges of allegedly raping a minor girl in Rajasthan.
The case pertains to the 
rape of a minor, a 16-year-old girl who was raped on Sep-tember 24 when she went 
to collect cow dung. The accused, named Madan Singh, 
was arrested in Hyderabad on Monday.
Earlier on September 26, 
the victim’s mother reported the incident to the police af -ter the victim told her mother about the incident.
As per the complaint, the 
victim had gone out to take cow dung. The accused, 
Madan Singh, was near the 
school after the school was over. He suggested she take 
the cow dung from near the 
school bathroom. As soon as the victim went inside, trusting him, the accused grabbed her, took her inside the bathroom, and raped her. Some women heard the victim’s 
cries and reached out, but 
the accused had run away by then.

*
A team of East Guwahati 
police from Dispur district 
arrested a person from the 
downtown area of Guwahati district on Monday and 
charged him with carrying a 
piece of ‘fake’ gold.
The police said that “secret” 
information was received and a team was constituted to apprehend the accused. The arrested person has 
been identified as Shyam Kumar, a resident of Madhubani district in Bihar.
The police have registered 
a case against Shyam Kumar. 
Police recovered 1 hammer, 
1 chisel and 1 mobile phone 
from his possession. “The investigation of the case is underway,” police officials said.
Assam Police on Saturday 
foiled a smuggling attempt 
and rescued 34 cattle heads 
from a bus in the Nagaon district on Sunday.
Police had received input 
that cattle were being smug -gled near the Kaliabor area 
and set up a Naka check accordingly. Police intercepted 
a vehicle in the Missa area near Kaliabor and found 34 
cattle heads. However, the 
driver and others escaped from the spot.
“Based on secret information, we had set up a Naka check in front of Missa police outpost and intercepted 
a vehicle. After seeing our team, the driver of the bus and other people fled from 
the area. 

*
Uniqueness is the quality of 
being particularly remarkable, special, and unusual or simply being the only one of its kind. So, with the 
Durga Puja festivities in full 
swing all around, it’s time for hundreds of unique thematic and aesthetic pandals, 
which attract huge crowds.Hence, from library-themed 
pandals to one depicting the 
Vatican City, here are some unique pandals that will leave you awestruck. 
Pandal depicting Kolkata’s 
journeyThis year, the theme of an 
innovative pandal set up by 
North Kolkata’s Dumdum 
Tarun Dal, Puja Committee, which turns 45 this year, is 
‘City of Joy, Calcutta.’ It attempts to reflect the city’s 
transformation from Old 
Calcutta to today’s Kolkata.
Library theme to encourage reading
In the Chatribari area in 
Assam’s Guwahati, the Chatribari Sarbajanin Debo Pujasthan Samiti has built its 
Durga Puja pandal to depict a library. 
Depicting lives of sex 
workers
A pandal in Kolkata that depicts the lives of sex workers under the ‘Parichai’ (identity) shows the society they live in and the way they are seen by people. 
An idol of Maa Durga made 
of silicon in the form of a mother has been installed, 
and it attempts to show that 
even a sex worker has the form of a mother.
Vatican City-themed pandal
This year, Kolakata’s Shree Bhoomi Sporting Club, which enthrals the audience 
every year, has set the theme 
of its Pooja Pandal as “Vatican City”. Pandal made with 
commemorative coins
Keeping in line with the 
AzadiKaAmritMahotsav celebrations, the BabubaganSarbojaninDurgotsav 
Puja pandal in South Kolkata has come up with a 
unique pandal that is made of thousands of commemorative coins issued since 
independence. The pandal also depicts freedom fighters and great personalities 
through its ‘MaaTujhe Salaam’ theme.

*
Madhu Sharma

Four peddlers identified as Vikas Baban Salve, Vinod Chandravan Kalkar, Kishore Thulshiram Wadekar, and Kosa Chitti 
Babu were apprehended near Prakash Gardens, NH-163 Warangal – Hyderabad Highway, Alair town & mandal, Y adadri Bhongir district. 
The accused, Y ogesh Dattu Gaikwad, devised a scheme 
to earn easy money by transporting/selling Ganja to needy customers in Maharashtra State, and he offered good share 
amounts to his friends, namely, Vikas Baban Salve, Vinod 
ChandravanKalkar, and Kishore Thulshiram Wadekar, who accepted his scheme. 
He was introduced to Palasi Karraiah, who is a ganja supplier in Malkangiri, Odisha, by his associates and used to col-lect ganja packets. He started the illegal transportation of the ganja under the cover of a coconut load to mislead and escape 
from police checking.
Gaikwad has been identified as the main kingpin in the 
racket and has good terms with the Ganja sellers at Malkangiri in Odisha State. 
He used to procure ganja from Palasi Karraiah of Malkangiri, Odisha State for Rs 2,000 to 3,000 per kg and transport the same to Maharashtra with the help of his associates Vikas 
Baban Salve, Vinod Chandravan Kalkar, Kishore Thulshiram Wadekar and Kosa Chitti Babu in a DCM. The accused sold 
the drugs for Rs 15,000 to Rs. 20,000/- per kg. 
Earlier, as per the instructions of Y ogesh Dattu Gaikwad, 
the accused persons left Maharashtra with an empty Eicher 
DCM vehicle and went to Ravulapalem (V), East Godavari 
(D) of Andhra Pradesh and loaded the coconut bags thereafter. They left Ravulapalem and proceeded to Malkanjgiri in Odisha state. 
He then contacted Palasi Karraiah and collected the ganja 
packets by concealing them under the coconut load. They then proceeded to Maharashtra via Hyderabad. The accused, 
Kosa Chitti Babu, used to guide the routes in Andhra Pradesh 
and Telangana to the accused persons for passing without any interruption.
On reliable information, the sleuths of SOT, LB Nagar Zone 
along with the Alair police of Rachakonda Police Commissionerate, intercepted the One Eicher (DCM) at Alair X Road.

*
Sudesh Verma

An increase in attempts to create 
conflict using various fault lines, whether in 
India or on the issue of India in other countries, is an indication that anti-India 
forces have become extra 
active. These forces cannot 
digest the fact that India has emerged as a strong power and there is no looking back.
India’s rise to power in 
terms of economic and military strength has provoked these forces. Their failure 
to destabilize the country or 
use large-scale violence to besmirch the image is showing. An alert government is 
thwarting their efforts, but 
these forces also know that it is now or never kind of situation for them.
India has recently overtaken the United Kingdom in terms of economy and is slated to do well despite all 
odds. Indigenization of de-fence production is reducing dependence on imports and the country plans to 
export its arsenal to neighbouring countries and also others that could not afford 
the costly weapon system of 
the West.
In the recent developments, we have seen India 
can call the spade a spade 
and take independent stand on international situations. 
It has withstood a strong 
China on the borders and has not lowered its guards 
ever. World leaders have often heard as saying that take 
Narendra Modi into confidence if you wish the world 
to succeed.
Naturally, these forces that 
thrived on showing India in a poor light would not be happy. They want to see India as a land of conflict and 
have presented it as such. 
The PFI with links to Pakistan would do everything to 
destabilize the country. The 
best way is to foster the Hindu-Muslim divide, create 
riots, and show to the world that India is yet to progress 
to being a civilized country. It suits their narrative if Muslims and Hindus are 
caught in the web of hatred.
India and Pakistan began 
their journey together. Pakistan that became a religious state became the source of terrorism and fear across the 
world. It tried to bleed India and launched jihad, but it 
failed. Today, while Pakistan has lost international image on all counts, India has 
marched ahead and is fast 
claiming its rightful place in 
the new world order.
Thus if you can’t do much, 
try to defame India everywhere. Pakistan has been 
supportive of the Khalistan 
movement and has been 
trying to create a wedge between Hindus and Sikhs. 
No wonder some Sikhs have 
been found to be indulging in hate crimes against Hindus.
Suddenly, we come across 
a spate of news where Hindus have been targets of hate 
crimes in the US, United 
Kingdom and Canada. A US-based research organization, Network Contagion Research Institute (NCRI) 
recently found out the “dangerous hybridization of hate 
against Hindus globally” by 
“Islamists and White Supremacists”.
“We’ve seen that there’s 
been a growth of over 1000 per cent and anti-Hindu 
slurs are stoking fears of replacement mixing with 
anti-Semitic memes, with 
other forms of narratives, and hatred shared by white supremacists, by Islamists, and others, and creating a 
toxic atmosphere of hostility,” Joel Finkelstein of the 
NCRI said.
Let us look at some of the 
recent incidents where Hindus were made targets of attacks. A large section of 
Indian Americans believes 
that Hinduphobia is on the 
increase. A Khalistani supporter abused Krishna Iyer of California. He was called “ugly Hindu, a “dirty Hindu” and one who “showers in 
cow urine”.
A Mexican American 
woman was charged with 
abusing a woman of Indian 
origin. She shouted “Go 
back to India”, and “I hate Indians” and assaulted the 
woman physically. Hindu 
American Foundation has 
found out that six men were 
smashing the statue of Mahatma Gandhi in New York. While using a sledgehammer to destroy the statue of the Mahatma, they used slurs and made repeated 
calls for Khalistan.
Leicester in England came 
into the news for hate Hindu 
crimes when Indians were 
celebrating India’s victory 
over Pakistan in the group stage match in the Asia cup recently. All the rumours spread to justify attacks on 
Hindus or to defame them were proved to be false. 
“The Guardian” had painted 
a negative image of Hindus 
and tried to apportion the 
blame on Hindus which led to demonstrations by some 
Hindu organizations outside 
the office of the prestigious newspaper. The same hate 
crime was seen as spreading to Burmingham when 
some Islamists gave a call for a demonstration outside Shree Sanatan Hindu Temple in Wembley.
The signboard of the recently inaugurated Shree Bhagwat Gita Park in Brompton (Canada) was vandalized. Prior to this 
the Swamynarayan Temple 
in Canada was vandalized. 
A Canadian lawmaker described this as hate crime and asked for remedial ac -tion.
Why this sudden jump 
in this new phenomenon? 
Have Hindus suddenly be-come bad? Not at all. They are the same but a rising 
India has made them realize 
that they can take genuine 
pride in being an Indian. Modi is known all over and 
suddenly respect for them 
has increased in the ruling 
establishments and political circles in their respective countries.
Almost everyone recognizes that Indians have contributed significantly to the 
development of the countries they work for. Canada has stressed this. The UK is thankful to the Indians for running their National 
Health Services (NHS) and 
the US landscape of high-tech and digital technology is powered by Indians.
Islamists coming from 
Pakistan and those they can 
influence locally despise 
Hindus who do not interfere 
in the works of others and are happy giving extra hours 
at work and spending the weekend in cultural activities. Hindus there are happy and proud and contribute significantly to the country’s economy. The Islamists are desperate to present the Hindus as hardliners and a community seeking conflict. These attempts were made 
at Leicester, Wembley and 
Canada.
Indians are despised by 
some locals too since they grab the coveted jobs that require hard work and 
technological minds. In the 
situation of joblessness, it is 
natural for locals to imagine 
that the Indians are taking their jobs. But the jobs are high-skilled and it is difficult for MNCs to find suitable locals at a reasonable salary.
The Khalistanis have a 
different axe to grind. India 
witnessed bloodshed when 
some misguided Sikhs made 
a demand for Khalistan as a 
separate country. It spoiled the minds of youths and the 
country lost a Prime Minister. Some echoes of the past are being heard again coming mostly from Canada.
Some newly empowered 
Sikhs in Canada and else-where may find it fashionable to talk of Khalistan but 
they should never forget history. Many young Sikhs had taken up arms in the 1980s to realize the dream of Khalistan. Many lives were lost 
and the movement died out.
Such movements would 
not succeed before a determined and powerful State. 
Living in Canada it is easy 
to talk and misguide our youths. The authorities in 
Canada should also realize the pitfalls of supporting such a movement there. 
Before terrorism hit the US twin towers of WTC on 11 
September 2001, the West 
and Europe used to teach India how to tackle terrorism. They tried to justify 
terrorism by terming it as the result of deprivation in education and employment.
While dealing with hate 
crimes, it is expected that these countries would do 
justice irrespective of the 
political fallout. They are facing the litmus test after having proclaimed that they 
are governed by Justice. For 
the Indian community outside, it is a big challenge and their success would lie in not getting provoked.

*
T. BRAJESH

During an event in Washington last week, External Affairs Minister (EAM) S. Jaishankar lashed 
out at the US over its F-16 package to Pakistan. He slammed the US for its decision to provide Pakistan 
with a $ 450 million package for what the Pentagon 
called the “F-16 case for sustainment and related equipment”. EAM did not show any hitch in questioning the merits of the US-Pakistan partnership, 
saying it had not served either country.
The US’ clarification evoked much sharper reaction from EAM. The Biden administration clarified that the move was not “designed as a message to 
India; rather, it is associated with America’s defence 
partnership with Islamabad, which is primarily focused on counterterrorism and nuclear security.” On this, Jaishankar remarked that the reasons were 
not “fooling anybody”. In other words, Jaishankar 
called a spade a spade, and this kind of reaction was 
a much-needed and timely move. What was more significant and remarkable is that he made these 
remarks while attending a function in Washington 
only. So, the message was stronger, firmer and more categorical to the Biden administration. While Pakistan continues to provide safe haven to various terror organisations and 
internationally 
blacklisted terror-ists, US’ decision 
to ramp up defence 
cooperation with it cannot be justified 
and should rather 
be criticised worldwide. The US’ 
clarification that it 
is “giving fighting power to Pakistan 
against terrorism is something 
that even a person with the least understanding about geopolitics and issues related to the same cannot buy. EAM pointed 
it out too. Referring to the argument made by the 
US that F-16 sustenance package is to fight terror-ism, Jaishankar said everybody knows where and 
against whom F-16 are used. “Y ou’re not fooling 
anybody by saying these things,” he said.
Does Washington’s move not suggest that the 
US is running with the hare and hunting with the hounds? This is the question that the Biden administration must be asked repeatedly. America is answerable to this question as well. On the one hand, the US tries to be seen backing the global war against terrorism emanating from Pakistan, 
Afghanistan and other geographies of the world, 
while on the other, it is militarily helping Islamabad which is the fountain-head of terrorism. Many US officials have on the basis of evidence and reports 
announced in the past that terrorist are being 
trained and protected on the soil of Pakistan. Why then is the US not stopping the supply of weapons, 
arms and financial help to Pakistan? Jaishankar’s 
outbursts in Washington have triggered a debate 
based on these questions that the Biden administration needs to answer. What is also needed is that 
India must continue to highlight these issues that 
expose contradictions in US’ approach towards 
Pakistan which is a breeding place for terrorists. Jaishankar was right when he said that America’s 
relationship with Pakistan has not served either of 
the two countries. “Very honestly, it’s a relationship that has neither ended up serving Pakistan well, nor serving the American interests. So, it is really for the United States today to reflect on what are 
the merits of this relationship and what they get by 
it,” he said. This is no secret that America’s longstanding military partnership with Pakistan’s army 
has emboldened the latter to shield terror elements 
and their organisations. There is no denying that 
Pakistan’s intelligence agency ISI, as evident from 
previous incidents and terror activity records, has been using these elements for terror attacks in India from time to time. The US is not unaware that Pakistan has failed to punish the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks in which several foreign 
nationals had also been killed. What the US officials 
do is just make a customary statement on the anniversary of the Mumbai attack every year, asking Islamabad to punish those involved in these kill-ings. What is more objectionable is that the Biden 
administration recently tried to sort of revive the 
equivalence between India and Pakistan, calling both the partners of the US with different points 
of emphasis. The US help to Pakistan in the IMF bailout is also questionable. So, given all this, Jaishankar’s strong reaction to the growing US-Pakistan defence ties was a welcome move. India must continue to highlight concerns related to any such 
action on the part of the US in future as well.
T. BRAJESHperspective
CALLING A SPADE A SPADE
JAISHANk AR’S 
SwIPE AT U.S. 
STRIkES  THE   
RIGHT  cHORD
Mallikarjun Kharge will 
become the 98th National 
President of the Congress 
on the 18th of this month. There is no apprehension 
about his victory yet, as he 
has the full support of the Gandhi family. However, the 
Gandhi family was missing 
on the day of nomination. The candidate is definitely 
there, but only for formality. 
Congress has set him up so that this message can be giv -en to the country that there is democracy in the party, 
that it is the only party in the 
world where the president is elected in a democratic 
manner. Such narrative 
only has an entertainment value. But the truth is that 
the whole world knows 
the status of a non-Gandhi president. This is a matter 
of great debate. Let’s talk 
about the President. The Congress is a 135-year-old party. It was formed in 1885 
to fight for independence. 
The first president was Wo-mesh Chandra Banerjee. 
In 135 years, after leaders 
like Subhash Chand Bose, Lala Lajpat Rai, Mahatma 
Gandhi, Vallabhbhai Patel, 
Madan Mohan Malviya, Motilal Nehru, Jawaharlal 
Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Rajiv 
Gandhi, P. V . Narasimha Rao, and Sitaram Kesari, in 1998, Sonia Gandhi took charge 
of the party. Since then, in 
a way, she has continuously 
remained the president and 
has set a new record of be-ing the president continuously for 24 years. Between 
2017 and 2019, her son Rahul Gandhi had become the 
president for two years. But 
after the crushing defeat 
in the Lok Sabha elections, the party has been running 
without a President. The 
thing to note is this. The Ne-hru family got the chance to 
remain in the post of President for the longest time or 
the Gandhi family got the 
chance. Jawahar Lal Nehru 
became the President six times. His daughter Indira 
Gandhi became the President for a year in 1959. But 
in 1978, a new party named Congress I was formed, 
which still exists. In 1980, 
the Election Commission declared the Indian National Congress. After the death of Indira Gandhi, in 1984, her son Rajiv Gandhi took 
charge of the party. After his 
death in 1991, P. V . Narasimha Rao became the Congress 
President and Prime Minister. During the five years of 
Rao’s tenure, it was felt that the Congress was out of the 
shadow of the Gandhi family. But the result was that the party was divided into 
many factions. After Narasimha Rao, Sitaram Kesari had taken command in Kolkata in 1996 as a non-Gandhi, but he was humiliated 
and removed from the post 
after two years. After that, 
Sonia Gandhi entered politics in 1998 and took charge 
of the party. Since then, the 
Gandhi family has been in control of the party.
 Now in 2022, the Gandhi 
family has given a chance to non-Gandhi Mallikarjun Kharge. Talking about experience and stature, the 80-year-old Kharge has 
been in many positions in 
government and organization. Before independence and after, till 1978, big prominent people held this position and enhanced the dignity of the party, but 14 years 
after Indira Gandhi’s formation of the new Congress, for 
three years in 1992, Narasimha Rao was such a leader whose stature is counted among the big leaders. It is 
worth noting that after Rao, 
Kesari ran the party amid much infighting. Then he was forcibly removed. Since 
then, the Congress Gandhi 
family is running the party. 
In these 24 years, under the 
leadership of Sonia Gandhi, the party came to power in 2004. It ran the government for 10 years without a majority. This phase of the alliance was very costly 
for Congress. The party is 
unable to emerge from the crushing defeat in the election. The process of defeat continues. The Congress, which is going through its 
worst phase, had to make 
a lot of effort to choose a non-Gandhi president for 
itself. The Gandhi family 
first gave the green light to the Chief Minister of Rajasthan, Ashok Gehlot, then suddenly he was refused. The Gandhi family was so confused by the meeting of 
MLAs in Jaipur that their 
most trusted leader, Gehlot, was taken away from them. 
The Gehlot episode has created many challenges for the new president. Kharge 
is definitely a senior leader, 
but he does not fit the stature of the leaders who have 
been becoming the president. Whatever one may 
say, it is out of compulsion that the Gandhis have made 
Kharge a candidate.
Kharge also knows what 
being the Congress President means in today’s situation. Perhaps Kharge was 
also sad about what happened in Rajasthan. He 
must have been definitely sad about the kind of “conspiracy” that is being done with a leader who has been loyal to the party for 50 
years. But he was not in 
a position to do anything. Kharge may even become a 
non-Gandhi president. But 
his authority will not be like that of Sonia Gandhi, Rahul 
Gandhi, and Priyanka Gandhi. The real high command 
will be the Gandhi family. 
Kharge will definitely sit at 
24 Akbar Road, but it has to be seen how much the office bearers of the Gandhi family will listen to him. Kharge has nothing to get now. He will get the highest post in 
Congress on 18 October. 
If Kharge is successful in showing the door to those 
people who kept the Gandhi 
family in the dark for their own interests and brought 
the party to the worst of 
times, then perhaps he will find a place in history.
The road ahead will be difficult for KhargeWhat is more objectionable 
is that the Biden administration recently 
tried to sort of revive the 
equivalence between India and Pakistan, calling both the partners 
of the US with different 
points of emphasis. The US help to Pakistan in the IMF bailout is also questionable. So, given all 
this, Jaishankar’s strong 
reaction to the growing US-Pakistan defence ties was a welcome move. India 
must continue to highlight 
concerns related to any such action on the part of the US in future as well.


*
The Allahabad High 
Court in the case Rajendra Kumar and 2 
Others v. State Of U.P. Thru 
Prin Secy Home And Another observed that the cancellation of bail cannot be done 
without giving notice to the 
accused and giving him an 
opportunity of being heard.
The bench comprising 
of Justice Ajai Kumar Srivastava-I observed and has 
set aside the order of the 
Sessions Judge, Raebareli 
cancelling the bail granted 
earlier to Rajendra Kumar 
and 2 others in connection 
with a criminal case.
It was noted by the High 
Court that the impugned 
order cancelling the bail was passed without issuing 
notice to the accused/applicants and without affording 
them a reasonable and sufficient opportunity of hearing 
and the same was patently 
illegal being in flagrant vio-lation of the rulings of the 
Supreme Court.
With this regard, it was 
also referred by the court 
to Apex Court’s rulings in 
the cases of Samarendra 
Nath Bhattacharjee vs. State 
of W .B. and another case of 
(2004) 11 SCC 165, Mehboob 
Dawood Shaikh vs. State of 
Maharashtra (2004) 2 SCC 
362, and the case P.K. Shaji 
alias Thammanam Shaji vs. 
State of Kerala.
In the present case the 
accused/applicants were 
granted bail vide by the Sessions Judge, Raebareli on November 22, 2021. Later, 
the court was informed that the accused allegedly threatened the witnesses and the 
complainant to desist from 
prosecuting the case after 
being granted bail.
The court finds that the 
aforesaid conduct of the applicants was violative of the conditions of bail subject to 
which they were enlarged 
on bail, it has been directed 
by the trial court that the 
applicants be taken into 
custody and also passed the 
impugned order cancelling 
the bail granted to the applicants.
The Applicant challenging the order, moved the Court 
arguing that in this case 
and their bail was cancelled 
without giving them any opportunity of being heard.
The court noted that it is a 
settled law that once bail has 
been granted by a competent 
court after due consideration 
of the facts and circumstances of the case and the same 
should not be cancelled in a 
mechanical manner without 
there being any supervening 
circumstance(s) which are 
not conducive to the fair trial.
However, it was not made 
clear by the court that trial 
court would be at liberty to 
issue notice to the applicants 
stating therein the grounds 
which are to be considered 
by it for cancellation of bail being granted to the applicants.

*
The Madras High Court 
in the case Dr. Mohamed 
Khader Meeran A.S v. State 
of Tamil Nadu observed 
and has recently sought the 
response of the Central and 
the State government on a 
plea seeking computerisation of medical records having legal importance, including postmortem report, 
injury report/ accident, etc.
The bench comprising 
of Chief Justice T Raja and 
Justice D Krishnakumar 
heard the case.
It was submitted by the 
petitioner, Dr Mohammed Khader Meeran that 
Medico Legal Examination 
and Postmortem Reporting 
(MedLeaPR) is a software 
developed by the National Informatics Centre (NIC) 
to issue various medico-legal reports and certificates 
digitally and to store the 
data in cloud storage in the 
encrypted form. Presently, 
the software is being used 
by many states and union 
territories in the country.
It was also directed by 
Madras High Court to 
implement this software in the state of Tamil Nadu 
by January 1st 2021. Thus, 
even though more than an 
year has passed, no effort 
has been made by any authority to implement the 
same, it was averred. The 
petitioner added that there 
is no standard proforma 
that exists in the State.
It was also contended by 
him that the present proforma is not at all at par with the standards prescribed by the Supreme 
Court in the case Samira 
Kohli Vs Dr. Prabha Manchanda And Anr., Civil Appeal No.1949 of 2004.
Further, the petitioner 
also submitted that documents like Injury Report, 
Post-Mortem Report (including viscera/chemical 
analysis report), report of 
examination after Sexual 
assault, age estimation 
reports have legal importance. However, if these 
are computerised, it would 
increase the efficiency of hospital administration, 
governments and the judiciary also.
The petitioner seek directions from the court to implement this software in all 
the Government hospitals.

*
The Calcutta High Court 
in the case Md. Wasim and 
Another v. M/S Bengal Refrigeration and Company 
and Others observed while 
hearing an application filed 
under Section 11 of the Arbitration and Conciliation 
Act, 1996 (‘ Arbitration Act’) 
for appointment of an arbitrator to resolve the dispute 
between the parties, wherein 
it was held that the bars for instituting a suit or any other 
proceeding under Section 69 
of the Indian Partnership Act, 
1932 (‘Partnership Act’) shall 
not be applicable to arbitral 
proceedings under Section 11 
of the Arbitration Act.
The present case of the applicants was that, although 
unregistered, a partnership 
deed was executed between 
the applicants and the re-spondents containing an 
Arbitration Clause mandating 
the referral of all disputes and 
questions to a person who ahs 
been appointed unanimously 
to act as an arbitrator.
However, a dispute arose 
between the parties, subsequent to which, the applicants sent a notice to the respondents invoking the arbitration clause and proposing the name of an advocate 
as sole arbitrator to resolve 
the dispute. The respondent 
denied the appointment of 
an arbitrator alleging that 
the allegations raised by the 
applicants in their initial notice were false. The applicants filed the application under 
Section 11 of the Arbitration 
Act for appointment of an 
arbitrator, aggrieved in these 
circumstances,
The application was filled 
by the applicants and it was argued by the respondents 
that since the partnership 
firm was ‘unregistered,’ the 
dispute could not be referred 
to an arbitrator in view of 
the application of and the 
bar created by Section 69 
of the Partnership Act, 1932. 
Further, their case was that 
since sub-sections (1) and 
(2) read with sub-section (3) 
of Section 69 of the Partnership Act restrict the filing 
of suit by any person as a 
partner of an unregistered 
firm including by means of 
a claim under ‘other proceedings,’ the appointment of an 
arbitrator could not be seek 
by the applicant, the partnership deed in their case being 
‘unregistered.’
It was observed that Chief 
Justice Prakash Shrivastava 
relied on the Supreme Court 
decision in Umesh Goel v. Himachal Pradesh Cooperative Group Housing Society Limited and on the Madras High 
Court decision in the case 
M/s. Jayamurugan Granite 
Exports v. M/s. SQNY Granites, wherein both of which held that arbitral proceedings 
shall not come under the expression ‘other proceedings’ 
of Section 69(3) of the Partnership Act, 1932 and that the 
ban imposed under Section 
69 can have no application to 
arbitration proceedings and 
as well of the arbitral award 
under Section 11 of the Arbitration Act.
Accordingly, it was held by 
the Calcutta High Court that 
non-registration of the partnership firm would not attract the bar under Section 69 
of the Partnership Act, so far 
as institution of proceedings 
as stated under the provision 
of Section 11 of the Arbitration Act is concerned.

*
The Supreme Court in the 
case Airports Authority of 
India versus Centre for Aviation Policy observed that the terms of invitation to tender 
are not open to judicial scrutiny, the top court has set 
aside a Delhi High Court’s 
order which had quashed 
the Airport Authority of India’s tender conditions for 
selecting Ground Handling 
Agencies (GHA) agencies at 
Group D Airports.
The bench comprising of 
Justice MR Shah and the Justice Krishna Murari observed and has stated that 
the Delhi High Court committed a “serious error” by 
entertaining a writ petition at 
the instance of a third party- 
an group of advocacy called 
Centre For Aviation Policy 
-when none of the GHAs 
challenging the tender conditions. Thus, the writ petition 
should have been dismissed 
on the ground of locus standi 
(Airports Authority of India 
versus Centre for Aviation 
Policy).
The court observed that in 
view of the matter, it is not 
appreciable how respondent No.1 (CAPSR) - original writ petitioner being an 
NGO would have any locus 
standi to maintain the writ 
petition, wherein challenging 
the tender conditions in the 
respective RFPs. Respondent 
No.1 cannot be said to be an aggrieved party in the case.
The Court stated that the 
even on merits, the High 
Court should not have interfered with the tender conditions, observed the Supreme 
Court. While referring to 
various precedents regarding 
limited scope of judicial interference in tender conditions
Further, the court stated 
that as per the settled position of law, the terms and 
conditions of the Invitation 
to Tender are within the domain of the tenderer/tender making authority and are not open to judicial scrutiny, 
unless they are arbitrary, discriminatory or mala fide and 
as per the settled position of 
law, the terms of the Invitation to Tender are not being 
open to judicial scrutiny and 
the same being in the realm 
of the contract. The Government/tender/tenderer making authority must have a free hand in setting the terms of 
the tender.The bench observed and 
has stated that the court cannot interfere with the terms 
of the tender prescribed by 
the Government because it 
feels that some other terms in 
the tender would have been 
wiser, fair, or logical.
It was observed that the 
AAI approached the Supreme Court against the order of the High Court dated 
July 14, 2021, by which it 
has allowed the said writ 
petition of the NGO and has 
struck down the decision 
to carry out region-wise 
sub-categorisation of the 
49 airports falling under 
Group D-1 and the stipulation that only the previous 
work experience in respect 
of providing the GHS to 
scheduled aircrafts shall be 
considered and will be acceptable. It was also found 
by the High Court that the 
revised minimum Annual 
Turnover criteria of INR 18 
crores as discriminatory and arbitrary.
Accordingly, the Supreme 
Court noted that the AAI 
explained before the High 
Court the rationale behind 
the respective conditions, 
namely, clustering of 49 
airports into 4 region-wise 
sub-categories/clusters; 
criteria for evaluation of 36 
months having experience 
in the past 7 years in providing 3 out of 7 Core GHS and 
the financial capacity and an 
Annual Turnover of Rs. 30 
crores (modified as Rs. 18 crores) in any of the one of 
last three financial years.
The court stated that while 
having gone through the respective clauses/conditions 
which are held to be arbitrary and illegal by the High 
Court, the court is of the 
opinion that the same cannot be said to be malafide or/ 
arbitrary and/or actuated by 
bias. However, it was for the 
AAI to decide its own terms 
and fix the eligibility criteria.

*
A high level InterMinisterial meeting under the cochairmanship of R.K Singh , Union  Minister of Power 
& NRE  and Bhupender Y adav, Union  Minister of Environment, Forest & Climate 
Change was held today to review the progress of biomass 
co-firing in thermal power plants along with Parali management in NCR and 
adjoining states.
The meeting was held in the 
backdrop of the onset of the harvesting season for Kharif 
crops in the country. Secre-taries of Ministries of Power 
and MOEF&CC, senior officials from MoA&FW , Chief 
Secretaries of governments 
of Punjab, Haryana & UP, Chairman-Commission of 
Air Quality of NCR along with officials of these ministries as well as heads of all power utilities in the NCR 
region attended the meeting. The meeting also drew 
participation from impor-tant government bodies like 
CAQM, CEA, CPCB etc.R.K. Singh  emphasised 
that orders for procurement 
& use of biomass pellets in 
TPPs must be expedited and at least 5% Co-firing is  to be 
ensured.
Singh highlighted that  
power utilities should make all out efforts to complete the 
procurement process for existing tenders as soon as possible. He  further underlined that till the time supply from 
the long term tenders is not started, power utilities should start procurement for the 
short term via alternate methods like commission agents 
as the harvesting season has 
already started.
 R.K Singh  also stressed 
that measures should be taken for expeditious setting up of manufacturing facilities 
for torrification of biomass 
pellets in different locations to overcome the challenges of 
supply of biomass’s pellets.
Singh  further suggested  
that Principal Secretary (Environment) from each State 
should act as nodal person for 
Biomass cofiring in the state.
Singh emphasised that the 
ministry would put penal 
provisions on  those thermal power plants that do not comply with the MoP’s policy on biomass co-firing. Sufficient 
emphasis was given on the fact that the health and safety of the citizens was topmost priority and no one has the 
right to put innocent lives in 
danger.
Bhupender Y adav, Union 
Minister of Environment, 
Forest and Climate Change welcomed  the suggestions. He further communicated that  Ministry of Power ( 
MOP) may think of giving Must Run status for the ther-mal power stations co-firing biomass. He  praised the initiative by MOP in mission mode and remarked that all should support Biomass Mission objective, which is 
a Mission of Hon’ble Prime minister of the country.
It is to be noted  that while 
till FY 2020-21, only 8 power 
plants had co-fired biomass pellets, the corresponding number has increased to 39 as on date. In the NCR region, 10 
TPPs have started co-firing. 
As on date, 83066 MT of bio-mass has been co-fired in 39 thermal power plants across 
the country totalling to a ca -pacity of 55390 MW . In NCR 
region, the biomass co-fired is 22,696 MT out of which 95% 
has been done by NTPC. Further, 99% of the PO in place has been contributed by 
NTPC Ltd. It was suggested 
that other GENCOs should follow the footstep of NTPC 
for successful implementation of Biomass co-firing in 
the country.
On the biomass pellet procurement side, a large no. of 
tenders have been floated by several power plants. Around 106 MMT of biomass tenders are at various stages of 
the tendering process. Out 
of these, order has already been placed for 43.47 Lac MT of biomass tenders by 35 
power plants while tendering process is ongoing for 1064 
Lac MT.
It was informed that 25 
number of offline and online training cum awareness programmes for various 
stakeholders in the sector including farmers, pellet manufacturers and power plant officials were held. While in the FY 2021-22, 10 such programs were held in a period 
of six months, 15 events have already been held in a period 
of six months in this Financial Y ear.
During the review, it was 
observed that the target of 
5% co-firing of biomass along 
with coal in TPPs in the country was still far off. However, most power plants have issued long term tenders and the situation is expected to 
improve when the supply will 
start in those tenders. Direction was given to all thermal 
power plants in NCR region 
to install biomass pellet manufacturing plants (torrefied / 
non-torrefied) in their premises, including the private power companies. GENCOs 
may also explore to put up plant through Consortium.  
It was further highlighted 
that the non-compliance in this regard would be viewed very strictly.
CAQM was also communicated to start considering penal provisions on Thermal 
Power Plants which are not 
taking enough steps to curb emissions and not co-firing 
sufficient quantity of bio-mass. CPCB informed that  
financial incentives are to 
going to be provided for setting up pellet manufacturing 
plants in the NCR region.
Ministry of Agriculture 
apprised that the central government has distributed 
Rs 600 crore worth of machinery to the Custom Hiring 
Centres of state governments under its scheme which can 
be used for stubble collection.

*
An Inter-ministerial meeting to review progress of 
biomass co-firing in ther-mal power plants was held 
in New Delhi today. The 
meeting was co-chaired by Union Minister for Environment, Forest & Climate Change, Shri Bhupender 
Y adav and Union Minister 
for Power, New & Renewable Energy, R. K. Singh. 
The meeting was held in 
the backdrop of the onset of the harvesting season for 
Kharif crops in the country. 
The meeting was also attended by Secretary (Power 
/ Environment, Forest &CC 
/ MOA&FW) and senior officials from the state governments of Haryana, Punjab & Uttar Pradesh and heads of all power utilities in the 
NCR region, as well. The 
meeting also drew participation from important government bodies like CAQM, 
CEA, CPCB etc.
The SAMARTH Mission 
presented the details of Biomass cofired in different NCR plants, Purchase orders placed, action on short term and long term 
tenders in process vis-avis the quantity required 
by NCR GENCOs as well. 
Regarding the quantity of biomass co-fired till date, it 
was mentioned that while 
till FY 2020-21, only 8 power plants had co-fired biomass pellets, the corresponding number has increased to 39 as on date. In the NCR region, 10 TPPs 
have started co-firing. However, the amount of biomass 
co-fired is still lagging. As 
on date, 83066 MT of biomass has been co-fired in 39 thermal power plants across the country totalling 
to a capacity of 55390 MW . 
In NCR region, the biomass co-fired is 22,696 MT out of which 95% has been done by NTPC. Further, 99% of 
the PO in place has been 
contributed by NTPC Ltd. Action by NTPC for both Biomass cofiring and pro-curement initiative was 
praised and it was mentioned that other GENCOs 
should follow the footstep of 
NTPC for successful implementation of Biomass cofiring in the country.
Different activities undertaken by MOP to expand Biomass co-firing in the 
country were discussed. 
Among the prominent activities are issue of revised 
Biomass policy, long term 
model contract, model SOP, Database development of Biomass stakeholders, lab development for testing of Biomass, initiation of R&D projects on 
Biomass, development of 
Biomass Mission website etc.  It was also discussed 
that 25 number of offline 
and online training cum awareness programmes for various stakeholders in 
the sector including farmers, pellet manufacturers and power plant officials 
were held. While in the FY 2021-22, 10 such programs 
were held in a period of 
six months, 15 events have already been held in a pe-riod of six months in this Financial Y ear. Mission also 
highlighted various advertisements given in national 
&regional dailies for stopping stubble burning and raising awareness about 
SAMARTH mission in association with Bureau of 
Energy Efficiency (BEE) & Power Foundation of India 
(PFI).
On the biomass pellet procurement side, a large no. of tenders have been floated 
by several power plants. Around 106 MMT of biomass tenders are at various stages of the tendering 
process. Out of these, order 
has already been placed for 
43.47 Lac MT of biomass tenders by 35 power plants while tendering process is 
ongoing for 1064 Lac MT. 
During the review, it was 
observed that the target 
of 5% co-firing of biomass along with coal in TPPs in the country was still far 
off. However, most power 
plants have issued long term tenders and the situation is expected to improve when the supply will start in those tenders. Meanwhile, Union Power Minister directed that till the time supply from the tenders is not started, power utilities 
should start procurement 
for the short term via alternate methods like spot mar
ket or commission agents as 
the harvesting season has 
already started.
All TPPs were directed 
that they should issue enough tenders to cover 
5% requirement of biomass with special emphasis on 
plants located in Punjab 
and Haryana. It was also directed that power utilities should make all out efforts to complete the procure-ment process for existing 
tenders as soon as possible.
Direction was given to all 
thermal power plants in NCR region to install biomass pellet manufactur-ing plants (torrefied / nontorrefied) in their premises, 
including the private power companies. GENCOs may 
also explore to put up plant 
through Consortium. It was further highlighted that the 
non-compliance in this regard would be viewed very strictly. He further directed that Principal Secretary 
(Environment) from each 
State should act as nodal person for Biomass co-firing in the state.
Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had accepted 
the suggestion. He further communicated that MOP 
may think of giving Must 
Run status for the thermal power stations co-firing 
Biomass. He has praised 
the initiative by MOP and remarked that all should support Biomass Mission 
objective, which is a Mission of Prime minister of the 
country. 
CAQM was also communicated to start considering penal provisions on Thermal Power Plants which are 
not taking enough steps to curb emissions and not co-firing sufficient quantity of 
biomass. 
Ministry of Agriculture 
apprised that the Govt. has distributed Rs 600 crore 
worth of machinery to the Custom Hiring Centres of state governments under its scheme. Union minister requested that MoA should monitor whether the scheme is benefiting the intended beneficiary and that machines for stubble col-lection are made available in the vicinity of thermal 
power plants.
Union Minister of Environment, Forest and Climate Change had further taken a review meeting for 
Financial support methodology. Union Environment Minister directed CPCB to also disseminate the infor-mation about the projects 
and organise workshop regarding the same. 
It was also emphasised 
that the Power ministry would consider reduction 
in coal supply of those thermal power plants that do not comply with the MoP’s policy on biomass co-firing. 
Sufficient emphasis was 
given on the fact that the health and safety of the citizens was topmost priority and no one has the right to put innocent lives in danger.
Union Minister (Power 
and New & Renewable Energy) lauded the efforts of the SAMARTH Mission 
and directed it to continue 
its good efforts and hoped 
that the measures of the 
government in transforming the problem of stubble burning into a solution of 
power production would 
bear fruit with the cooperation of state governments.

*
Minister of Civil Aviation, Jyotiraditya M. Scindia 
along with Chief Minister 
of Chhattisgarh, Bhupesh Baghel inaugurated a direct flight from Bilaspur to Indore, today, on 03rd October 2022.
The flight will operate 
between Bilaspur-Indore-Bilaspur effective 3rd October 2022 (Today). It will 
operate every Monday, 
Wednesday, Friday & Sunday on this route.
In his address, Minister of 
Civil Aviation, Jyotiraditya Scindia said “this new air 
connectivity will facilitate 
people of both the states and contribute to the eco-nomic development of the 
regions. The Minister further added that the Ministry is working to operationalise 200 destinations including heliports and water aerodromes by 2026. 
The central government is 
committed to take the civil aviation sector to newer 
heights and improve air 
connectivity in every part of the country.
Bilaspur and Indore 
are prominent cities in Chhattisgarh and Madhya Pradesh respectively. Enhanced air connectivity be-tween these cities will help bolster tourism and trade 
activities in the region and 
contribute to their overall economic development.
Alliance Air’s Flight 9I 
691 will depart from Bilaspur at 1135 hrs. and arrive 
in Indore at 1325 hrs. with 
an introductory all-inclusive fare of INR 2,847/-. Flight 9I 692 will depart 
from Indore at 1355 hrs. 
and arrive in Bilaspur at 
1545 hrs. with an introductory all-inclusive fare of INR 3,218/-.
The inauguration was 
graced by Shri Tulsi Silawat, Minister of Water, 
Resources of Madhya 
Pradesh, Shri Jaisingh 
Agrawal, Minister in charge of District Bilaspur, 
Arun Sao, MP (LS) Bilaspur, Shankar Lalwani, 
MP (LS) Indore, Shailesh Pandey, MLA Bilaspur, 
Dharamlal Kaushik, MLA 
Bilha,  Ramcharan Y adav, Mayor Municipal Corporation, Bilaspur, Smt. Rashmi Ashish Singh, Parliamentary Secretary, Government of Chhattisgarh. Be-sides, Usha Padhee, Addl. Secretary Ministry of Civil 
Aviation, Vikramdev Dutt, 
CMD, AIAHL, Vineet Sood, CEO, Alliance Air, and other dignitaries from 
MoCA, AAI, Alliance Air, 
and local administration 
from Bilaspur, and Indore 
were also present.



*
A 15-year-old boy was shot 
during an argument with 
two people on a Bronx street, 
according to a media report. 
New Y ork City Police are in search of the two suspects, as per Fox News. The shooting occurred around 11:00 
PM on Friday in the Bronx 
neighbourhood of Castle Hill. The teen got into a “verbal dispute” with the two 
suspects before one of them opened fire, the media outlet 
reported. 
Both the suspects fled from 
the scene. Shooting incidents in the United States have 
been common these days. In early September, one student was killed and another was injured in a stabbing at a high school in North Carolina. 
Prior to that, a 15-year-old 
teenager was apprehended 
for allegedly shooting and 
injuring two fellow students 
in Washington, according to DC police. A 19-year-old 
man was also charged with 
murder in a series of random shootings over around two 
hours last weekend in Detroit that killed three people. US President Joe Biden has 
said that he is determined 
to ban assault weapons in America amid the increasing gun violence in the country. 
He went on to say he had 
helped ban assault weapons 
previously, referring to the 
1994 ban he helped usher in while serving in the US 
Senate. Notably, Congress 
passed a 10-year ban on assault weapons in 1994. 
Meanwhile, authorities announced that it will soon be forbidden to carry a firearm, even concealed, in the famed Times Square district and other public places in the city 
and state of New York. 
Mayor Eric Adams, as quoted by The Washington Times, has said that visitors to New 
York City will see signs in Times Square advertising it as a “sensitive location” where 
people cannot carry guns.

*
Days after UK Prime Minister Liz Truss 
insisted she would 
not abandon the tax cut for 
the wealthiest, the conservative government on Monday took a U-turn on the plan to 
scrap the 45 per cent tax cut. 
The British government 
has announced it will reverse plans to scrap the highest rate of income tax following a major backlash to its 
proposed “growth plan,”.  
In a statement posted online 
Monday, new Chancellor Kwasi Kwarteng said the 
plan “had become a distraction. We get it, and we have 
listened. “ 
Kwarteng said that the 
proposed scrapping of the 
45% rate for those earning 
more than 150,000 pounds 
(USD 167 ,000) had become a “distraction.” “From supporting British businesses to lowering the tax burden for the lowest paid, our Growth 
Plan sets out a new approach 
to build a more prosperous economy,” he said in a statement on his Twitter account. 
However, it is clear that the 
abolition of the 45% tax rate has become a distraction 
from our overriding mission 
to tackle the challenges facing our country, “he added. 
As a result, I’m announcing we are not proceeding 
with the abolition of the 45% tax rate. He also defended the delay in the reversal, 
saying, “We can always have 
a debate about when we could’ve made the decision, 
but the important thing is 
we’ve made the decision and we can now move forward 
with making the push for 
the growth plan.” 
The radical cuts sent the 
pound plunging to historic 
lows and sparked market chaos, leading to a revolt 
within the governing Con -servative Party. The U-turn comes after several Tory 
MPs voiced their opposition to the plan announced 
just 10 days ago in the minibudget. 
The proposal to scrap the 
rate paid by people earning over £150,000 a year has 
been criticised as unfair at 
a time of rising living costs. 
The damage is already done 
in terms of the Truss government’s standing with the voters and the markets. 

*
In the run-up to the 20th 
National Congress of the 
Chinese Communist Party 
(CCP), propaganda has been centered around projecting 
the inevitability of a third 
term for President Xi Jinping. Incidentally, at the end 
of his anticipated third term, 
President Xi would become 
the second longest-serving head of the CCP after Mao Zedong, who was in control 
of various positions for 33 
years and 174 days. Xi would 
also surpass the tenure of Jiang Zemin, who led the CCP 
as General Secretary for 13 years and 145 days during 
the period 1989–2002. 
Interestingly, the expected 
third term would provide 
Xi an opportunity to further stamp his authority 
on the party, military, and 
government with the intent of creating an enduring legacy. Meanwhile, the CCP, as part of its efforts to shore up public support for Xi’s third 
term, announced on September 27 that it would publish a compilation of documents, 
called the “Revitalisation 
Library,” which would highlight China’s pursuit of 
national rejuvenation as well 
as the long-term goals of the 
party. 
President Xi underlined 
that the ‘Revitalisation Library’ is a major cultural project, aimed at bolster-ing public confidence in the 
country’s path. President Xi 
also reappeared (September 
27) in public, for the first time 
in the aftermath of his return 
from Samarkand, and visited an exhibition in Beijing on 
the country’s achievements 
since 2012. 
Xi was also accompanied 
by Beijing-based members of the Politburo of the CCP. 
Significantly, Xi calls Mao’s 
time the ‘revolution period,’ Deng Xiaoping’s the ‘building period,’ Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao’s the ‘reform pe-riod’ while calling his term a 
‘whole new era.’

*
The death toll from a suicide bombing at the Kaaj Educational 
Center in Afghanistan’s capital, Kabul, has gone up to 43. The 
casualty figures in Friday’s college bombing in the Hazara 
neighbourhood are likely to rise further, as per the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA). Till 
now, 43 people have been killed and around 83 have been 
wounded, with girls and young women as the main victims. The human toll from Friday’s college bombing in the Hasra 
neighbourhood of the Afghan capital continues to rise. 43 
killed. 83 wounded Girls and young women are the main victims. Casualty figures are likely to rise further. “The verification process continues by UNAMA human rights teams in Kabul,” tweeted UNAMA. 
Earlier, on Friday, a blast occurred in the 13th security area of 
Kabul, Taliban spokesperson Abdul Nafee Takour was quoted. 
Multiple media reports claim that about 100 students of the 
institute have been killed in the attack. However, the UNAMA said that its human rights teams in Kabul are helping to establish an accurate record of the college attack in the Hazara neighbourhood. 
Earlier, a number of women from Afghanistan’s minority 
Hazara community on Saturday protested in Kabul against 
the terror attack at the Kaaj Educational Center. The female 
protestors dressed in black chanted slogans against the genocide of minorities and demanded their rights.
This explosion comes a few days after a blast was reported 
near the Wazir Akbar Khan area of Kabul that sparked a global outcry. The recent blast outside the Russian Embassy in Kabul 
was also condemned in the strongest terms. 
This series of blasts comes as the Taliban completed one 
year of its rule in Afghanistan following the ouster of the 
US-backed civilian government last year. Rights groups said the Taliban had broken multiple pledges to respect human and women’s rights. Meanwhile, the Taliban on Monday shot into the crowd of young girls who were peacefully 
protesting in Herat to demand their right to go to school.   
Rights groups say that the Taliban’s human rights abuses have 
brought widespread condemnation and imperilled international efforts to address the country’s dire situation.

*
As the controversy regarding the leaked audio continues 
in Pakistan, former Prime Minister Imran Khan has challenged the coalition government led by the Pakistan Muslim 
League (N) to arrest him. 
At a public gathering in Taxila, Punjab on Sunday, the deposed leader said PML-N vice-president Maryam Nawaz 
wanted the cypher to disappear in a bid to hide the conspiracy hatched by PM Shehbaz Sharif’s party. “This is the 
movement of real independence and we are ready to face 
jails. I am ready to go to jail and for my nation as well. “We are not afraid of jail,” he was quoted as saying by The Nation. 
The cypher is an alleged secret diplomatic cable which fueled conspiracy theories that the US administration wanted 
to topple Imran Khan’s government and facilitate regime 
change in the country. 
The cypher is based on then-envoy Asad Majeed’s meeting 
with US State Department official Donald Lu, who has been at the centre of PTI’s claim that the US conspired to dislodge Imran from office in April. 
During his address, Khan said, “They have started a new 
drama regarding the disappearance of the cypher while its master copy is in the office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Maryam Nawaz can ask her ambassador about it, “he added. 
While referring to the Pakistan army, he said, “Those who 
could prevent the conspiracy from succeeding, if they call 
themselves neutral at this time, the nation will never forgive them.”  Pakistan’s Federal Cabinet has formally given the go-ahead to start legal action against former PM Imran 
Khan over the recent audio leaks that purportedly featured 
him and his aides discussing a US cypher. 
On Friday, the Pakistan federal cabinet met with Prime 
Minister Shehbaz Sharif in the chair.

*
At least 1,695 people were 
killed, while 12,865 were 
injured so far (2 October) 
since mid-June due to the devastating floods and rains 
in Pakistan, the National Disaster Management Authority (NDMA) said on Sunday. 
Pakistan has endured 
severe monsoon weather since mid-June 2022, causing widespread flooding and landslides with severe repercussions on human 
lives, property, agriculture, and infrastructure. To date, 81 districts across five of Pakistan’s six provinces have been declared “calamity hit” by the government of Pakistan—with Balochistan, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, and Sindh provinces being the worst hit. As of mid-September, 33 million people had been affected; at least 1,481 people have died; over 12,720 peo-ple have been injured; and 
an estimated 7 .6 million 
people may be temporarily displaced. 
The United Nations is set 
to launch another appeal this week for an additional 
USD 600 million to Pakistan to help the country recover from the impact of the 
record-breaking floods. 
“2nd Follow-up meeting of 
the Steering Committee for 
Coordination Regarding 
International Assistance 
for Flood Relief Activities, chaired by Humair Karim, Acting Secretary EAD to 
discuss mapping of humanitarian assistance and 
relief efforts,” Pakistan’s Economic Affairs Division (EAD) said in a tweet. “The UN is in the process of launching a Revised Humanitarian Appeal on the 4th of October in which an additional USD 600 million 
will be requested for immediate relief assistance,” 
it added. Pakistan EAD 
Secretary Humair Karim 
informed donors and relief agencies that the UN would 
launch the revised humanitarian appeal on October 4 
for USD 600 million in additional aid. Earlier, the UN 
launched a flash appeal in 
August for US $160 million for flood relief support.

*
Taiwan on Sunday rebutted Chinese Premier Li Keqiang’s remarks about the Chinese Communist Party’s (CCP) resolve 
to achieve unification and said that it sought to undermine the 
legitimacy of Taiwan.
Taiwan will never accept Beijing’s attempts to undermine its 
sovereignty, the Mainland Affairs Council (MAC) said yesterday, after the Chinese Communist Party (CCP) at its National 
Day celebrations in Beijing vowed to achieve unification with Taiwan, reported Taipei Times. The council said the statement was an attempt to undermine the legitimacy and sovereignty of Taiwan. “We will never accept such ideas,” it said.
The CCP’s statement was not conducive to peaceful crossstrait relations, the council said, reported Taipei Times.
The event, hosted by the Chinese State Council, featured 
Chinese President Xi Jinping, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang, 
the other five CCP Politburo Standing Committee members 
and Vice President Wang Qishan, among others.



*
The Nobel Prize in 
Medicine or Physiology 2022 was awarded to Svante Paabo for his discoveries concerning the 
genomes of extinct hominins and human evolution, announced the award-giving 
organisation on Monday.
“The Nobel Assembly at 
Karolinska Institute has today decided to award the 2022 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine to Svante Paabo for his discoveries concerning the genomes of 
extinct hominins and human evolution,” read the 
Nobel Prize statement. The 
2022 Nobel Prize laureate 
Svante Paabo found that 
gene transfer had occurred from the now extinct hominins to Homo sapiens. 
This ancient flow of genes to present-day humans has 
physiological relevance today, for example affecting 
how our immune system reacts to infections, the state-ment said.
Svante Paabo has established an entirely new sci -entific discipline, pale genomics. By revealing genetic 
differences that distinguish 
all living humans from extinct hominins, his discoveries provide the basis for exploring what makes us 
uniquely human.Through his pioneering research, Svante Paabo accomplished something seemingly 
impossible: sequencing the 
genome of the Neanderthal, 
an extinct relative of present-day humans. He also made 
the sensational discovery of 
a previously unknown hominin, Denisova, entirely from genome data retrieved from a 
small finger bone specimen.
Importantly, Paabo also 
found that gene transfer had occurred from these now extinct hominins to Homo sapiens following the migration from Africa around 70,000 years ago, the statement read. 
Svante Paabo is a Swedish 
geneticist specialising in the field of evolutionary genetics who was recruited to 
the University of Munich in 
1990, where, as a newly ap-pointed Professor, he continued his work on archaic DNA.

*
Ever since Beijing launched 
the China-Pakistan Eco-nomic Corridor (CPEC), 
the repeated attacks on Chinese nationals in Pakistan’s Sindh, Balochistan, KhyberPakhtunkhwa provinces and the Pakistan-occupied 
Kashmir region reveal the 
strong dissent of Pakistani nationals against Chinese interests. 
Especially after Chinese 
hordes landed in Pakistan in connection with CPEC projects, different extremist 
groups have made Chinese 
interests targets of their attacks inside the country. Recently, a Chinese national was killed on Wednesday and 
two others were injured when 
an unidentified man opened fire inside a dental clinic in Karachi’s Saddar area. 
According to the Asian Lite 
publication, since 2016, when Beijing launched the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor 
(CPEC), this was the 10th 
attack on Chinese nationals 
and interests in Pakistan. In 
Karachi, this was the second attack on Chinese nationals 
since the Shehbaz Sharif government came into power.

*
Brazil’s incumbent President 
Jair Bolsonaro will face for-mer President Luiz Inacio 
‘Lula’ da Silva in the deciding second round of Brazil’s presidential election later 
this month.
Neither candidate was able 
to hit the 5 per cent mark needed to win in the first round, reported CNN. With more than 97 per cent of the vote counted on Sunday evening, results released by Brazil’s Electoral Superior Court 
(TSE) showed left-wing candidate and former president Luiz Silva held a slight lead 
over incumbent President 
Bolsonaro - but not enough to cross the threshold to victory.
Lula and Bolsonaro will face each other again on October 30 for a run-off vote, reported CNN. The vote on 
Sunday followed a bruising 
campaign season marked by bitter verbal attacks and 
a series of violent incidents 
between supporters of Bolsonaro and Lula. Several 
other presidential candidates were in the running 
but trailed far behind the 
two frontrunners.

*
Amid the ongoing economic crisis in 
the country, Sri Lanka has cut taxes on 
female sanitary products in a bid to help women unable to afford the hygiene 
product, according to reports.
Local media News First citing the 
presidential media division reported 
that the “government has taken measures to waive duties imposed on five imported raw materials for locally pro-duced sanitary napkins.” “It (the government) has also been decided to provide 
tax concessions for imported finished 
sanitary napkins as well,” News First reported further.
According to the reports, a price of a 
pack of 10 sanitary napkins produced locally will be reduced by Rs 50 to Rs 60 with these tax concessions, and the 
maximum retail price of a pack will be 
Rs. 260-Rs 270. The consumer retail 
prices of imported finished products will be reduced by 18 per cent or 19 per cent.
Sri Lanka continues to reel under a severe economic crisis. Earlier, protesting the dire conditions, Sri Lankan 
protesters had broken into then Prime 
Minister Ranil Wickremesinghe’s private residence and set it on fire. They 
were angered by the unprecedented 
economic crisis. During those protests, several journalists were also attacked by the security forces after which more 
protestors gathered in the area. Notably, 
Sri Lanka is suffering from its worst economic crisis since gaining independence in 1948, threatening to undo years of development progress.

*
APOORVA CHAUDHARY 

Instagram pays over a billion for a single post to 
some celebrities. Isn’t it shocking? Who could have 
thought a social media platform, which children are 
generally advised to not use as it wastes time, could make you earn this much? Let’s see who are the 
celebrities that are earning a whopping amount by 
just posting pictures.
Cristiano Ronaldo -  
rs 19 Crore per post
People of every generation know who Cristiano Ronaldo is, no matter whether they 
are soccer fans or not. He is a Portuguese professional footballer who plays for Manchester United 
K.C. He is one of the most prominent and successful sports figures in the world. With 484 million followers on Instagram, Cristiano Ronaldo is the highestpaid Instagram celebrity of 2022.
Kylie Jenner - rs 15 Crore 
per post
Kylie Jenner is one of the most famous 
celebrities in the beauty industry. She 
became widely known after her family’s 
show, ‘Keeping Up With The Kardashians’. She is 
the founder and owner of Kylie Cosmetics, which 
has an annual turnover of over 500 million. She is one of the most successful influencers and the second-highest paid Instagram celebrity.
Lionel Messi - rs 14 Crore per 
post
Who doesn’t love Lionel Messi? Messi is 
an Argentine professional footballer who 
plays forward for Paris Saint-Germain F.C. Messi 
is one of the most famous athletes in the world. He 
has a huge fan base on Instagram and is the third 
highest-paid Instagram celebrity.
Selena GoMez - rs. 14 Crore 
per post
Selena Gomez is a singer, an actress and 
the owner of the successful beauty brand 
‘Rare Beauty’. She was introduced to the 
industry as a child actor with the series Barney & Friends and has enjoyed love and affection from her 
gigantic fan base even after she switched to music. She is the fourth highest-paid Instagram celebrity as of 2022. 
Dwayne Johnson -  
rs. 14 Crore per post
Dwayne Johnson, better known as ‘The 
Rock,’ is an American actor and producer. 
Previously, he was a professional wrestler 
in the WWE. He is considered one of the greatest 
professional wrestlers of all time and was a major 
driving force behind WWE’s success. The Rock is now one of the most popular actors in the world and the fifth highest-paid Instagram celebrity.

 
*
On the ocassion of Durga Ashtami, #DurgAshtami took 
to top trends as netizens extended wishes on the auspicious day. 
One of the users said, “In this unique culture, the feminine is held as the supreme divine, revered and much 
adored. Celebration is feminine. The feminine is exuber-ance. And that is how you should be every moment of your life – exuberantly alive.”
Second user said, “This Durgashtami may the goddess 
bestow you and your family with her 9 blessings: name, fame, prosperity, education, health, wealth, happiness, 
power and commitment. Happy Durgashtami!”
Third user said, “Shubho Maha Ashtomi To Everyone. 
May Goddess Durga Takes away all your sorrows and problems from your life and bless you and your family 
with lots of happiness and prosperity.”
“Shubh Durgashtami to all Hindus. Each and every 
woman in ansh of Durga. Woman is shakti. God chose only woman to give birth. Growth and destruction both plays in her lap. Durgashtami is the festival to celebrate 
divinity of woman,” said another user. 
Maha Ashtami, also known as Ashtami or Durgashtami, is considered as one of the most auspicious days of Navratri and Durga Puja festivities.
This year Ashtami falls on October 3. Maha Ashtami, commonly known as Ashtami, is widely observed 
throughout the country. This auspicious day is devoted 
to Maa Mahagauri, one of Maa Durga’s nine avatars. It is 
also called as Durgashtami by those who observe Durga 
Puja and is one of the most significant days. 


* 
A ten-year-old girl 
from Kashmir’s So-pore has taken the 
internet by storm with her social media videos.
Known as the youngest social media influencer from the Kashmir Valley, Aqsa Masrat has enthralled hundreds of thousands of people who watch her videos regularly.
The young girl posts videos not just about the scenic beauty of her home state but also about a handful of societal concerns.
A student of Shah Rasool 
Memorial Welkin Sopore, 
Aqsa was just six years old 
when she made her first video. Her first video was 
about ‘Chillai Kallan”-the 
harshest forty-day-long spell of winter in Kashmir.Speaking about the video, 
Aqsa said, “I wanted kids my 
age to enjoy it and be able to 
connect it to a real-life event, so I decided to produce a 
video about Chillai Kallan. 
It was my first random video that saw an unexpected 
response from the public. 
I was encouraged to make more such videos.”
The young talent has made 
50 videos so far and has received immense support and love from the viewers along her journey.
As mentioned above, Aqsa 
not only records videos about everyday problems 
but also uses her social 
media to draw attention to problems in her community. 
She has also created videos 
that demonstrate how crops are grown and harvested.
“I got views in lakhs on 
my videos like Sopore Fruit Mandi, Paddy harvesting, Kangri. In fact, I got one 
million plus views on one of 
my videos ‘Mere Mamu ki 
Shaadi’. People are showering praises for my videos,” Aqsa said.
The budding influencer 
is currently studying for her 5th standard and while 
many love her work, she 
did face some problems from the people around 
her. Recalling how her family helped her on her journey, Aqsa said, “There are many people around me 
who have inspired me for 
my amelioration but when it comes to making videos, 
I got inspiration from my 
uncle (maamu), who is an internationally acclaimed 
photojournalist.”
She has over 58 thousand 
followers on her Facebook page, ‘What Aqsa Says’ and 
in the future, she aspires to be an IAS officer. 

*
Hollywood star Bruce Willis 
has denied selling the rights 
of his face to an AI company to create his ‘digital twin’.
According to Deadline, 
it was widely reported last week that the actor sold the rights to his face to a Russian 
deepfake company called 
Deepcake.
This would have allowed 
them to create a ‘digital twin’ for the actor, who retired in March following his diag -nosis of aphasia, a condition 
affecting a person’s speech.
According to Deadline, 
Willis’ spokesperson denied any kind of partnership or 
agreement with the company this weekend. Deepcake 
confirmed this to a British 
news outlet.
Deepfake companies use 
artificial intelligence to create realistic simulations of 
famous figures. 
A deepfake of Willis appeared in an advert for a Russian telecoms company last year.Deepcake claims to have 
worked with the actor on the AI for the ad and used a glowing recommendation 
from him on their website, 
but Willis’s people did not confirm this, as per Deadline.
This comes after ‘Star 
Wars’ veteran James Earl Jones handed over the rights 
of his unique Darth Vader 
tones to another AI company, Respeecher, indicating 
that he was retiring from the 
role, and passing the baton through use of technology.


*
The new family portrait of 
Britain’s Royal Family has been unveiled. Buckingham 
Palace has shared the new 
photo of King Charles III with Queen Consort Camilla 
Parker Bowles, Prince William and Kate Middleton.
According to Page Six, the 
photo was clicked the night before the Queen’s funeral. The photo was posted on social media through the royal 
family’s official account and was clicked by photographer Chris Jackson.
In the photo, Kate Middleton is seen wearing a longsleeved black dress along 
with black tights and pumps. Prince William, on the other hand, opted for a classic suit.
Camilla Parker Bowles 
wore a black embroidered dress, while King Charles III also wore a classic suit 
like his son.
According to Page Six, the photo was taken at the pre-funeral reception that 
Buckingham Palace hosted a day prior to the funeral 
of the Queen, where many 
world leaders, including US President Joe Biden, were also present.
Many people noticed 
the absence of Harry and Meghan from the family portrait on social media.
Britain’s longest-serving 
monarch died hours after the palace said that the Queen 
was under medical supervision at Balmoral after the doctors expressed their concern over her health.
Her death was followed by 
10 days of official mourning and a grand procession of 
events that were followed 
around the world, culminating in her state funeral in London and burial at Windsor.
The coffin of Queen Elizabeth II was lowered into 
the Royal Vault at Windsor 
Castle in London after the committal service.

*                  
Vivek Lall, an Indian-origin General Atomics Global Corporation chief executive, is 
honoured with the Lifetime Achievement Award by US 
President Joe Biden with a 
citation of ‘With Grateful Recognition’.
The citation was given 
to Lall, who has a PhD in Aerospace Engineering from 
Wichita State University in 
Kansas, by AmeriCorps and the Office of the President. It 
was also personally signed 
by the President of the United States, as per the official statement.
AmeriCorps is a part of 
the US government. The organisation aims to foster 
activities that bring Americans closer together to “serve communities.”Lall, an industry leader 
and scientific community 
titan, works as Chief Executive at General Atomics. The company is a global leader in the specialised fields of 
nuclear technology and has 
developed state-of-the-art 
Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs) like the Predator, Reaper and Guardian 
drones.
Lall, the son of an Indian 
diplomat, was one of the handful of individuals with 
Indian origins to have been 
invited to meet Indian Prime 
Minister Narendra Modi this past year during his Washington visit.
Notably, prior to his leadership position at General 
Atomics, Lall worked for organisations such as NASA, 
Raytheon, Boeing, and Lockheed Martin; his experience 
and accolades have been 
regarded as unparalleled by many in the scientific community and long-term industry observers alike.
He is serving as a US Technical Team Member for the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) Science 
and Technology (STO) with 
the Pentagon.
He was appointed in a critical advisory role to the US 
Cabinet Secretary, heading 
the Department of Transportation, encompassing 
entities like the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), in 2018. 

*
Dr Sowmya Bharani

Obesity has been a 
worldwide problem for the last decade and a half. During the pandemic, there has been a steep increase in obesity 
and inactivity. Post the pandemic, many people have woken up to the fact that increasing obesity has be-come an immediate danger 
not just to themselves but 
to their whole family. With 
waistlines increasing rap-idly, addiction to junk food 
continuing, and sedentary 
life becoming more com -mon, there is a higher risk of early-onset obesity. Obesity is linked to a slew of issues, 
including diabetes, heart disease, metabolic syndrome, and so on. Unless stringent measures are taken, obesity 
can become a problem that 
is uncontrollable. Many peo-ple are morbidly obese and 
have reached a point where 
diet and exercise don’t help them. Hence, bariatric surgery is on the rise. Before this 
becomes common, here are 
a few things that we can try.
Ultra-processed foods, 
junk food, food delivery services, and sedentary lifestyles have all contributed 
to a rapid increase in obesity 
rates, especially during the pandemic. Although most people are now back to their 
regular work and lives, the 
weight they gained during 
the pandemic still remains. So how do we shift the paradigm?
Such a big change needs a change in mindset and 
plenty of guidelines to help 
people get fitter. Healthy eating should be taken as a challenge by the whole family and the focus should be on 
healthy food indulgence. The 
whole family should support and motivate each other. One 
of the first steps is to identify 
unhealthy or junk food. For 
this, reading nutrition labels 
and understanding how fast-food chains process food is 
extremely important. After 
identifying unhealthy food, it becomes important to remove it from the house. Many home and office environments are obesogenic, 
i.e., they create an environment conducive to obesity. 
It’s vital that the environments that you spend the most time in are conducive to healthy eating and prevent 
access to junk food.
The second important 
thing is portion control. Most individuals are used to stress 
eating. So even if they are 
eating fresh, home-cooked 
meals, the portion sizes are 
much bigger than what is recommended—which leads 
to weight gain. Understanding portion size becomes an important part of weight loss and maintenance. Even junk food and treats consumed 
in small portions once in a 
while will not lead to early 
onset obesity. 
Although many foods 
might not be empty calories, many foods substantially contain many more calories than nutrients. Substituting these with nutritious foods 
such as fruits and vegetables 
goes a long way in practicing 
healthy indulgence. However, many people have this 
mindset that fruits and vegetables are mundane and bor-ing. Working with a dietitian 
will help you figure out some 
exciting recipes that can help with long-term weight management.
With increasing work 
pressure, competition, traffic, and late-night assignments, all of this can add to 
stress, which in turn makes 
individuals make unhealthy 
food choices. If mindfulness is practiced, it is easier 
firstly to identify that there is a problem and second that 
investigations into the root 
cause of the problem need 
to occur.Dr Sowmya Bharani is a 
Lead Nutrition Expert at Lil 
Goodnes. 

*
Dr Saurabh Joshi

Just as breast cancer is a risk 
women face, similarly, elderly men above the age of 
50 face the risk of prostate 
enlargement, which in some cases may turn into cancer as well. The incidence of prostate cancer is rising. Though it is among the most benign 
cancers, like any cancer, it 
may prove to be life threatening.
Prostate enlargement 
(PE) is described as an enlarged prostate, a condition that can affect how you urinate.
The prostate is a small 
gland located in the pelvis just below the bladder outlet between the penis and the bladder. It generally affects men aged over 50 and is fairly common. 
Many men worry that 
having an enlarged prostate means they have an increased risk of developing 
prostate cancer. This is not 
the case. The risk of prostate cancer is no greater for 
men with an enlarged prostate than it is for men without an enlarged prostate.SymptomS
If the prostate becomes enlarged, it can put pressure on 
the bladder and the urethra, 
which is the tube that urine 
passes through.
This can affect how you pee 
and may cause:  
Difficulty in urinating.
Frequent need to urinate.
Difficulty fully emptying 
bladder.
Ignoring these subtle symptoms on the pretext of aging can result in complications 
such as kidney failure. 
The cause of prostate 
enlargement is unknown, but it’s believed it is caused 
by hormonal changes 
caused by aging. The balance of hormones in your body changes as you 
get older, and this may 
cause your prostate gland to grow.
You might have several different tests to find out if you have 
an enlarged prostate.
The most important tests 
are physical examination and USG KUB(ultrasound kidney, ureter and bladder), uroflowmetry, CT Scan, and 
MRI, which are the same tests 
when they are reviewed on a case to-case basis. A PSA test 
is recommended for everyone 
over 50 years old in the USA. 
Any abnormal figure may be 
indicative of cancer. So an eye should be on the PSA figure. 
Any abnormally high number here calls for further investigation.
If you have mild symptoms, 
you do not usually need immediate treatment. Y ou’ll 
probably be advised to make 
lifestyle changes, such as:
Drinking less alcohol, caffeine and fizzy drinks.
Limiting your intake of 
artificial sweeteners.
Exercising regularly
Drinking less in the evening.
Medicine to reduce the 
size of the prostate and relax your bladder may be recommended to treat moderate 
to severe symptoms of an 
enlarged prostate. However, if the patient, despite medication, is having difficulty in urinating then surgery may be recommended. Surgery 
like HoLEP, TURP is usually 
recommended for moderate to severe symptoms that have 
not responded to medicine. 
Benign prostate 
enlargement can sometimes lead to 
complications, such as:
A urinary tract infection 
(UTI).
Acute urinary retention
Acute urinary retention 
(AUR) is the sudden inability 
to pass any urine.
Symptoms of AUR include:l Suddenly not being able 
to pee at all.
Severe lower tummy pain.
Swelling of the bladder 
that you can feel with your hands.
Go immediately to your 
nearest urologist if you expe-rience the symptoms of AUR.
Even if there is no acute retention, chronic obstructive status may damage kidney function and lead to chronic 
kidney disease. If a person is 
on conservative therapy, then he should be regularly monitored for prostatomegaly and kidney function.
Those who have  high PSA should go for more tests. A 
biopsy is recommended and 
the biopsy report would indicate the presence of cancer. 
If the cancer is indicated, the 
treatment would depend on the age and overall health 
condition of the patient. If the 
patient is otherwise healthy, then the complete prostate removal can be done.
We have to understand that 
generally, prostate cancer is the least debilitating of the 
cancers, and with proper 
treatment, patients can lead a normal and healthy life for 
a fairly long period of time.
Dr Saurabh Joshi is senior 
consultant and unit head at 
Urology and Kidney Transplant at Accord Superspeciality 
Hospital,Faridabad.

*
Dr Anish Desai

Following a healthy diet can 
increase longevity, protect 
against disease, and improve your overall quality of life. Several nutrients in food pro-mote health and protect your 
body from disease. The “Food 
as Medicine” concept gener-ally refers to managing food 
and diet in an individual’s 
routine, with the aim of pre-venting, reducing symptoms of, or reversing a disease process. Research has shown that 
dietary habits can influence risk factors for disease. While 
certain foods can trigger and 
aggravate health conditions, 
others may offer significant medicinal and therapeutic 
advantages. 
Headaches are a common 
occurrence that is encountered routinely by individuals. A study conducted by Biman K Ray in 2017 revealed that the one-year prevalence of migraine in an Indian 
population was found to be 
14.12%. Headaches can be 
triggered by several small 
incidents that might not be considered significant. Sleepless nights, skipping breakfast, work pressure or stress, and excessive blue-screen 
exposure are all examples of 
irregular routines that can cause headaches. Migraine is a disabling primary headache disorder experienced 
predominantly by women 
and triggered by hormonal, emotional, physical, dietary, 
environmental, and medicinal factors.
In individuals, migraine 
triggers can include specific 
foods or types of foods. Eating a healthy diet can help prevent migraines and headaches. Alternatively, certain 
foods can decrease the frequency of migraine head -aches or lessen the intensity of their symptoms. Though no definitive ‘migraine diet’ has been described,’ individuals may be able to reduce their migraines by monitoring the 
food that they eat.
FooDS to avoiD
Nuts and certain seeds: Tyramine, present in nuts and 
certain seeds, can induce 
headaches and migraines.
Cheese: Aged cheese consists of high levels of tyramine, which aggravates migraines and headaches.
Caffeine: According to 
clinical studies, drinking 
more than one to two cups of coffee per day can cause migraines in 14% of patients. 
Chocolate : Chocolate is 
the most common migraine food trigger, and it has been epidemiologically linked to 
migraine attacks, so doctors typically advise migraine patients to avoid it.
Tomato-based products: 
They contain a high amount of histamine or tyramine that 
can aggravate migraines.
Avoid processed (packaged) foods: Nitrates and nitrites present in processed foods cause swelling of the 
blood vessels and can trigger migraines.
FooDS to ConSume
Dark green leafy vegetables: 
Study published in BMJ Case 
report revealed that inclusion 
of leafy vegetables in meals can play pivotal role in re-lieving migraine or chronic 
headache .
Turmeric: Curcumin 
present in turmeric helps in 
relieving migraine frequency and duration.
Coriander: Consumption of 
coriander leads to a greater reduction in the duration, 
severity, and frequency of 
migraines.
Citron: It has reported several benefits in clinical trials 
however it also helps in reducing migraine intensity and duration.
Clinical trials of several 
herbal medicines indicate that various foods, through their multifactorial physiological influences, present potential options to improve 
migraine treatment.
The author is MD, Clinical Pharmacologist and Nutraceutical 
Physician, Founder and CEO 
IntelliMed Healthcare Suctions.

*
Dr Chavi Sharma Bhargava 

If I were to ask you as to what differentiates the human species 
from other species, your response 
would probably be that humans are bipedal, have the power of language, are self-aware, can 
think, but what really differentiates us is our capacity to do “seva”, our ability to help others. Only the 
human species has this capacity for helping all life forms, which we call altruism, prosocial and philanthropic behaviour. But the 
essence is captured in the word 
‘seva.’
Seva  is a Sanskrit word meaning selfless service and is perhaps considered the most important 
part of our existence. It asks us to 
serve others with no expectation of outcome. A parallel western concept is volunteerism/help/
service/community/social service, philanthropy, and the more contemporary and chic Corporate 
Social Responsibility and Institutional Social Responsibility.
Seva is a motivational state that a 
person possesses with the goal of increasing the welfare of another 
living being. While Seva, on the 
surface, seems to benefit others, it 
is actually the individuals engaged in Seva who also benefit. Seva is positively correlated with happiness, health, and well-being. People who did Seva showed greater 
satisfaction in life and exhibited reduced rates of depression and anxiety. So when you feel depressed, lonely, or anxious, go out 
and do seva. It could be working with animals, humans, the environment, etc. It is therapeutic and all-consuming and leaves no room for negativity.
While many of us feel drawn 
to helping others, our ego tends to drop in and voice our own 
thoughts. We use it to promote 
ourselves, our brands, and flaunt our service, which makes it coun -terproductive. Ego can also judge how we serve others. It may tell 
us that some types of service are 
more noble than others. “Oh, you help your neighbour once a week with 
her groceries? W ell, I run events that 
serve 500 people.” “Oh, you help animals. Why don’t you help old people or 
children? “ This is not seva but the ego at work, because the aim of seva is to silence the ego, dissolve the ego, as all 
mental diseases emanate from the ego 
and its fears. 
When we serve with the essence 
of seva in mind, we begin to see the myriad ways the ego, the source of all our troubles, is standing in front of the heart. When we transition from the head to the heart, then Seva becomes a practice of 
purification, a spiritual act. It is 
also in listening to the heart that we begin to understand that our innermost nature is a giving one. While the ego mind may tell us 
we need to focus on ourselves and 
even when we serve, it is when we shift into the spirit of seva that 
we realise we are naturally  kind. 
In other words, we are  naturally 
moved to serve others. It is when 
we do seva that we realise that all life is connected and working for others is the only path to mental 
fitness, wellness, and wellbeing 
and the royal road to spiritual growth.
The question you need to ask 
yourself for your happiness is, “Did you do Seva today?”
Dr Chavi Sharma Bhargava is the 
founder and CEO of Indic Center for 
Psychological Wellness and Holistic 
Health and Conversationists-Talking Cures. 

*
Taruni Gandhi

In a rare feat, a female ophthalmologist from Asia has become 
President of the International Uveitis Society Group and has 
been able to mark PGIMER at the global level. Uveitis is a 
field of medical science in which rare specialists are found 
and trained so far. The Daily Guardian had a one-on-one conversation with Dr Vishali Gupta on this and talked about the responsibilities she would have as president of this prestigious society.
What is this society all about? What is 
uveitis?
The International Uveitis Study Group was formed in 1978 
by a small number of clinicians who shared a common inter-est in Uveitis. Over the next almost 40 years, the group has 
increased in size to over 180 Uveitis specialists from all over 
the world. 
What is uveitis?
Uveitis is the name given to inflammation inside the eye that, in some patients, can lead to blindness. It can affect one or both 
eyes, and the inflammation involves the uveal tract (iris, ciliary 
body, and choroid), although inflammation of adjacent tissues, 
such as vitreous humour, retina, and optic nerve also occurs. 
It could be due to an autoimmune disease and sees no age.
hoW long has the PgiMeR been tReating 
uveitis, and ho W Many exPeRts does the 
deP aRtMent have?
PGIMER, under the stewardship of Dr Amod Gupta, has been working in the field of Uveitis since the 1990s. Then Dr Vishali Gupta, along with five experts, inducted Tuberculosis 
in Uveitis for the first time in the world. PGIMER has a special 
clinic for Uveitis patients, and these patients’ treatments are 
long, sometimes lifelong. Since PGIMER has Rheumatology, 
Microbiology, Research Scientists, and Pediatricians all under one roof, it is easy for the patients to get the best treatment. In 
the other sectors, it is not that easy.

*
Pushpesh Pant

It was more than a decade ago when the words "contemporary" Indian, 
"progressive" Indian, or 
"avant-garde" Indian were 
first heard. In the context of food, the trendsetter was Manish Malhotra, who 
opened the doors of his 
restaurant—the Indian Accent—then housed in a small boutique hotel in the Capital called The Manor. Indian 
Accent was promoted by 
Rohit Khattar, a restaurateur with innovative ideas 
who had trained in the US. 
Even earlier, he had created a buzz with his unique eatery, "Chor Bizarre," where 
everything was deliberately 
and deliciously mismatched. 
What Manish unveiled was 
a stunningly new concept. 
This was a multi-course tasting menu, far removed from the traditional Indian thali or pattal that served many dishes, dry or with gravy, on 
the same plate. It took some 
time before the idea gained traction. 
Many food critics thought 
that Manish was trying to 
turn desi dining on its head. In less than a decade, Indian 
Accent has become a mustvisit landmark dining destination. The portions were 
small and there was a lot of 
fusion of exotic and traditional ingredients. 
The presentation was aesthetically pleasing, one may 
even say tantalizing, and the wines were lovingly paired. 
No one complained that after the meal, both the belly 
and purse felt light. Within 
ten years, Indian Accent had 
opened branches in London and in New Y ork. 
Manish never claimed 
that what he was offering was 'progressive', a much-abused word in politics, nor could anyone accuse him of 
borrowing from the Nouvelle French Wave. 
The Indian accent in his 
recipes remained distinctly Indian, and the fusion was never confusing.  Since then, 
there have been many iterations of this theme. 
What's avant-garde or 
contemporary for one gen -eration doesn't take too long 
to become passe for the next. 
This is what happened to the next big trend that hit Indian 
shores. This was the excursion into molecular space 
that some Indian chefs undertook with great haste. 
Foams of all kinds, liquid 
nitrogen, and blow torches 
made those slogging in the kitchen feel that they were 
the peers of the scientists 
working in advanced labo-ratories at home and abroad.
This trend never really 
caught on because the wor-thies presiding over 5-star 
hotel chains were not setting 
a trend but merely following it. What created alarm was 
when molecular delicacies 
prepared without adequate care not only burned a hole 
in the pocket of the customer but literally a hole in the 
stomach. The wannabe scientists beat a hasty retreat.
However, by the time this 
hiccup was over, new chefs had emerged on the scene 
to 'take Indian food to the 
next level'. Among them, 
the most consistent and inspiring, arguably, is Chef 
Vineet Bhatia, who has been awarded multiple Michelin 
stars during his career 
abroad. He has opened a string of celebrated restaurants in London, Dubai, and Saudi Arabia. His creations remain true to their Indian 
roots but are more than just tweaked. For instance, his 
square green jalebi.
There are other chefs who 
have been honoured with 
Michelin stars, like Shrijit Gopinath, who has consistently retained his two stars in a restaurant in the San Francisco Bay Area at the 
Taj property. Vikas Khanna 
first hit headlines with his restaurant 'Junoon' in New 
Y ork, which had the cream of society eating out of his 
hands. 
What needs to be underlined is that most of these 
chefs appear to have "diluted" the strong flavour of regional Indian delicacies, often blending two flavours, to win over loyal patronage 
that goes beyond the diasporic community. It would 
be difficult to sustain the 
claim that they have accelerated the evolution of Indian 
food in any significant manner.
Zorawar Kalra, owner of 
Massive Restaurants, is one 
of India's most interesting and successful businessmen. Inspired by his father, the legendary Jiggs Kalra, he has displayed an incredibly 
Midas touch. Over the past 
years, he has launched a slew of restaurants—the Punjab 
Grill, Farzi Cafe, Made in 
Punjab, Masala Library, Papaya Grill—always remaining ahead of the curve. 
Zoravar is on the side of 
sensible, safe molecular interventions in the Indian kitchen and upgrading the skills of the cooks, equipping them with the latest gizmos and gadgets. 
His different outlets cater 
to different clientele, from 
millennials on a small budget to those on unlimited expense accounts. Many of his eateries operate in India and 
have had a filter-down effect on emerging trends in tier 
two cities.
It seems that in the con -text of contemporary Indian cuisine, one trend subsides 
and the other immediately surges to allow the diners to 
ride the wave. 
The rising wave at the moment seems to be the one that is rediscovering ancient 
grains, foraged foods, and 
forgotten, almost lost family 
heirloom recipes recovered from regional repertoires. 
Of course, the chefs have 
learned a lot from the pio-neers who have preceded 
them. 
They present their creations with a flourish, and the plate looks like a canvas painted by an abstract 
artist. They are sensitive to 
the health concerns of the 
younger generations as well as fads like veganism.
Nishant Choubey is one 
such chef who has wowed his guests in places as far apart as Bangkok, Dubai, Mauritius, and the US. He 
has showcased some very 
interesting dishes in the Michelin-plated Indus in Bangkok and won the prestigious 
Iron Chef contest there.
 These achievements and 
accolades were a hard act to 
follow in Bangkok, where at 
one time, Gaggan reigned supreme. However, what Gag -gan served was his interpre-tation of Pan-Asian and not 
necessarily Indian. His restaurant has a months-long 
waiting list that continues 
to attract fun-loving tourists 
with gimmickry like lick-you-plate.
It is difficult to forecast 
the future of Indian progressive-contemporary or avant-garde cuisine. At the 
moment, except for Zoravar Kalra's and Nishant 
Choubey's work, other creations are largely confined 
to expensive deluxe eateries. 
The other difficulty is that 
many of the exciting cre-ations of gifted chefs, like Manu Chandra's Coorgi 
Pandi (pork) Curry with Levantine Pita or a Chocolate Bombe with dizzying Old 
Monk, are not likely to find 
a mass market and contrib-ute to the evolution of pork dishes in the subcontinent. Food and drink taboos are 
hard to shatter.
 The siddu stuffed with 
an inventive filling or panbraised paneer with tandoori ananas, millet pulav 
with rista, on the other hand, 
may become aspirational and quickly find their way 
to tables in more affordable 
eateries. 

*
Sabbhineni Meghana’s 
maiden T20I fifty, Shafali Verma’s 46 and Richa Ghosh’s blistering cameo of 33* propelled India to beat 
Malaysia by 30 runs by the Duckworth-Lewis (DLS) method in a rain-affected 
match in the Women’s T20 
Asia Cup, at Sylhet Cricket Stadium on Monday.
With their second successive win in the tournament, 
India are leading the points 
table alongside Pakistan, who have also won as many 
matches as Women in Blue 
in the event so far. 
Chasing a target of 182, Malaysia got off to a bad start as they lost their opener Winifred Duraisingam in the 
very first over of the match. 
Duraisingam went back to the pavilion after scoring 
zero runs as she was dis -missed by Deepti Sharma.
Indian bowlers delivered economical spells and 
restricted Malaysian batters from scoring big runs. 
Rajeshwari Gayakwad then gave Malaysia another blow 
as she dismissed Wan Julia for 1 run.
Malaysia were 16 for 2, 
with Deepti Sharma and 
Gayakwad accounting for a wicket each when the match 
was called off due to persistent rains. India won the match by 30 runs by the DLS method. Earlier, fiery knocks 
from Sabbhineni Meghana 
and Shafali Verma followed by Richa Ghosh’s blistering 
cameo of 33* helped India post a challenging target of 
181/4 against Malaysia.
For India, Meghana scored 
the highest 69 runs while Shafali Verma slammed 46 
and Richa Ghosh played an unbeaten knock of 33 runs.
India made four changes to the playing XI, resting some major players like Smriti Mandhana, Sneh Rana, 
Pooja Vastrakar and Renuka 
Singh.
Put to bat first, India got off 
to a flying start as the openers Sabbhineni Meghana 
and Shafali Verma slammed Malaysian bowlers all-around the ground and gathered 36 runs in five overs without losing a wicket.
The duo continued carnage 
on Malaysian bowlers and 
hammered Ainna Hamizah 
Hashim for 11 runs in the 
last over of the powerplay. Meghana, brought in for the 
rested Smriti Mandhana, 
slammed a stunning four and brought up her halfcentury in 37 balls.

*
World No 13 Arjun Babuta, 
the ace shooter is the silver 
medalist at National Games 2022. He is from Chandigarh and competes in the 10 meter air rifle events. Arjun has been a part of the Indian Shooting Team since 
2016. Arjun Babuta won 
one bronze in ISSF Junior World Cup 2018(Sydney). 
He won one gold medal and 
one bronze medal in 10m Air 
Rifle Event at ISSF Junior 
World Cup 2016, Gabala. 
In a candid conversation 
with The Daily Guardian 
the ace shooter gives insights 
about his performance at the 
National Games. Excerpts:Q. As we are talking, you look 
ready to leave for somewhere?
A. I’m traveling to Delhi for 
my World Championship’s 
camp right now.
Q. How are the preparations going on for your W orld Championship, Asian Games and also needless to mention Paris Olympics. 
A. Preparations are good 
and the cherry on the cake is 
that we have foreign coaches 
and psychologists right now 
with us. The preparations are even better than before, so I’m looking forward to 
bigger performances this 
year. 
Q.  Arjun many congratulations on your winning silver medal at 
National Games, also how does it feel to win the same as it’s your maiden.A. Thank you so much.  I represented Punjab in National Games 2022, I participated in 2015 national games, but I was very young back then, 
so this time I have quite 
an idea about the national games and the level of competition. It felt really good to 
secure a place this time also 
the competition was good, the venue was good, the way 
it was organised, it seemed as if I have come to an international venue. Everything 
was great. It’s always actually great to see the games 
hiked to this standard in 
India.  I’m very happy about the achievement of mine too.
Q. Arjun this National Games 
popped up all of a sudden, though all the shooters were gearing up for W orld Championships, Asian Games and 
Paris Olympics consecutively, 
so did you guys panicked a bit or you took it as in a good opportunity to boost your confidence for 
further tournaments. A. Definitely. Personally, I 
took it as an opportunity. 
It was a good preparatory 
match, for my world championship.  I could see how the things are working out 
and if I need to make some 
changes to my game plans and amend my strategies 
point blank. Everything is 
in place and, there’s still time 
for world championship, so I just need to go with the pace 
that I’m currently following or the things I’m currently 
doing. 
Q. W e have heard that Deepali Deshpande, your coach is a 
very discipline loving coach. 
How would you credit her for your wins.
A. Definitely the credit goes 
to the coach and all the team members, the support staff that are involved in the process. Actually, it’s more of 
their efforts as well because, 
they take care of my, physical, mental health and train 
me technically also. So it’s a great team. 

*
Indian women’s table tennis team continued their winning run at the ongoing World Team Table Tennis Championships 2022 with a 
win over Egypt in their third 
Group 5 match on Monday.
India continued their winning run by defeating Egypt 3-1. In the first match of the tie, Sreeja Akula started India’s winning campaign as she defeated Hana Goda in a straight sets win 11-6, 11-4, 
11-1. With the win in the first 
match, India established a 1-0 lead.The second match of the 
tie saw experience paddler Manika Batra registering a comprehensive win over 
Dina Meshref in a five-set 
thriller 8-11, 11-6, 11-7 , 2-11, 
11-8.In the third match of the 
tie, India had to face a defeat. 
Egypt made a strong come-back in the tie as their player 
Y ousra Helmy defeated Diya 
Chitale. Chitale prevailed as 
victories in the first game but however could not manage 
to keep her form and handed the Egyptian player an 11-5, 
10-12, 11-9, 9-11,4-11 win.
In the fourth match of 
the tie, Akula handed the 
Indian Table tennis team a victory over Egypt as she 
defeated Dina Meshref 11-8, 
11-8, 9-11, 11-6. Earlier in the day, the Indian men’s table 
tennis team continued their 
winning run at the ongoing World Team Table Tennis 
Championships 2022 with a 
win over Kazakhstan.
India continued their winning run by defeating Kazakhstan by 3-2.
India’s top-ranked player Sathiyan Gnanasekaran started off the proceedings against Zholudev Denis. 
Gnanasekaran dispatched 
the first challenge to Team India within no time by 3-0 win in three straight sets (11-1,11-9,11-5).
With this win, India took a 
1-0 lead in the match.
Harmeet Desai stepped in 
to play the next game against Kirill Gerassimenko. Kazakhstan made a comeback 
into the match, winning the 
game within three straight sets by 11-6, 11-8, 11-9. The 
game was a highly competitive one as compared to the 
previous one.

*
Following his side’s 16-run win over South Africa in the second T20I, Indian captain Rohit Sharma admitted that his team has not been bowling well in 
death overs for the last five to six 
games and it needs to do 
better in this aspect.
David Miller’s explosive ton went in vain as Indian bowlers hold their nerve to clinch the T20I series 2-0 after 16 run victory in the second T20I against South Africa here at Barsapara Cricket Stadium, Guwahati on 
Sunday. “[On team’s batting approach] 
All of us came together and said it 
was what we wanted to do as a team. It might not come across at times, but 
we want to stick to it. What I have seen 
in the last 8-10 months is individuals 
putting their hands up and getting the 
job done for the team. Guys without too much experience did this as well. 
The team wants to play and bowl in a 
certain way and we want to give them that confidence,” said Rohit in a post-match presentation.
“Y es, we have not bowled well at the 
death in the last five or six games. We are doing the same to the opposition as well. To bowl and bat at the death 
is very tough. That is where the game 
is decided. It is not concerning, but we 
need to pick ourselves and get our act 
together. I am thinking of not playing Surya anymore and play him directly on 23 October (For T20 World Cup campaign opener against Pakistan). This 
is how is game is and 
we just want to 
keep him happy,” he added.
With 
this 
win, India 
has an unassailable 2-0 lead in the three-match series.
Coming to the match, 
India was put to bat first 
by Proteas and they scored 
a massive 237/3 in their 20 overs. Explosive knocks 
from KL Rahul (57 off 
28 balls), Suryakumar Y adav (61 off 22 balls) and Virat Kohli 
(49* off 
28 balls) helped 
Men in  
Blue 
reach 
this to-tal.
Spinner Keshav Maharaj was the 
only bowler who looked good for Proteas, taking 2/23 in his four 
overs.
Chasing 238, South 
Africa lost opener 
Temba Bavuma and 
Rilee Rossouw for 
a duck, thanks to 
pacer Arshdeep 
Singh’s (2/62) 
opening spell. Aiden Markram and Quinton de 
Kock formed a 
45-run stand before 
Markram was dismissed 
by Axar Patel (1/53) for 33 
off 19 balls.
Next, it was de Kock and 
David Miller who formed a 
174-run stand for the fourth 
wicket but fell short of a win 
by 16 runs. Miller scored a brilliant century, 106* in just 47 
balls. de Kock also scored 69* 
off 48 balls.
KL Rahul won the ‘Man of 
the Match’ award for his 57 off 
28 balls.
The final T20I will be 
played on Tuesday at Holkar 
Cricket Stadium in Indore. 
Following this, the threematch ODI series between 
both teams will start on October 6. 

*
Assam’s Astha Choudhury 
claimed the honour of becoming the first swimmer 
to break a record as the National Games Aquatics competition commenced at the Sardar Patel Aquatics Complex here on Sunday.
She clocked 1:03.91 in 
the 100m Butterfly heats to take the Games record 
from Richa Mishra, who 
set it at 1:04.41 in Ranchi in 2011. 
Incidentally, the Butterfly specialist had clocked 
1:03.07 in Guwahati last 
month to claim the National Record too. Tanishi Gupta (Karnataka) and Divya Satija 
(Haryana) were second and 
third fastest in the heats.
Sajan Prakash, the Best 
Male Athlete of the 2015 National Games, started his quest to repeat that feat 
by entering two individual 
finals and the Kerala team’s 4x100m Freestyle relay 
final. On a day when his 
younger Olympic colleague, Srihari Nataraj, made his 
appearance only in the 
Freestyle relay heats, Sajan Prakash stated his intent in very clear terms.
Aware of the number of 
races that he will have to compete in in his pursuit of that title, he was conservative in doing enough to make the finals in the 200m Freestyle and 100m Butterfly. Sajan Prakash opened 
with a 1:55.74 in the 200m Freestyle, his time being the fifth fastest in the heats behind rising star Aneesh S Gowda and Sambhavv Rao 
(both Karnataka), Gujarat’s 
big hope Aryan Nehra and Vishal Grewal (Delhi).
Vedaant Madhavan,  
who trains alongside Sajan Prakash in Dubai, also 
made it to the final. National 
champion Harsh Saroha (Haryana), who finished ninth, has been marked as a 
reserve for the final.
The vastly experienced 
Sajan Prakash breezed to the top of the 100m Butterfly qualifications with 
a time of 56.16 seconds. 
Sambhavv Rao also made 
it to his second final, clocking 57 .47 though Assam’s 
Bikram Changmai (Assam) 
was the second fastest of the qualifiers from the heats.

*
India’s star batter Virat 
Kohli is likely to be rested 
for the third T20I between 
India and South Africa which will be held in Indore 
on Tuesday.
According to BCCI sources, the former India skipper 
is likely to be rested for the 
third T20I against Proteas 
as Kohli needs to be in the best form when India plays their T20 World Cup opening match against Pakistan at the iconic Melbourne 
Cricket Ground on October 23. India have already 
gained an unassailable lead of 2-0 over South Africa. 
With Men in Blue defeating 
South Africa by eight wickets and 16 runs in the first and second T20I respectively to clinch the series, the third game at the Holkar Stadium on Tuesday evening becomes a dead rubber.
Kohli on Sunday became 
the first India to complete 
11,000 runs in T20 history. He achieved this feat during the second T20I against 
South Africa here at Barsapara Cricket Stadium, Guwahati on Sunday. In the 
match after scoring 19 runs, 
Virat became the fastest to 
reach 11,000 T20 runs in just 354 matches.Former India skipper 
slammed a stunning six 
over the long-off in the 
Wayne Parnell’s over to 
reach this milestone. With that six in Parnell’s over 
Kohli registered his name in 
the history book to become the first Indian to complete 11,000 runs in T20 history.
During the second T20I 
against South Africa, Kohli 
displayed his class. For a moment, everything was 
mesmerized by the beautiful shots that Suryakumar 
Y adav was playing but 
Kohli made his presence 
count with some quality 
shots around the park and scored an unbeaten 49.
After struggling with poor 
form the wait for Kohli’s 71st century finally came to an end during the Asia Cup after 1,020 days. He smashed a stunning 122* off 61 balls 
against Afghanistan, and 
in doing so equalled Ricky 
Ponting’s record of 71 inter-national tons.
Virat Kohli found his 
touch during the recently concluded Asia Cup 2022, in which he finished as the 
second-highest run scorer 
in the tournament and also scored his much anticipated 
71st international ton.
Kohli scored 276 runs in 
five matches at an average of 92.00 with one century and 
two half-centuries. 

*
MANOJ JOSHi

Weightlifter of Arunachal, Maharashtra and Punjab 
each won a gold in the National Games on the fourth 
day. CWG medalist Lovepreet Singh of Punjab and 
Sambo Lapung of Arunachal won easily while Maharashtra’s Komal Wakale had to fight hard for the gold.
Lovepreet has confirmed 
a gold in the first attempt of 
clean and jerk in the men’s 
105 kg category. After that he didn’t have to turn up for 
the last two attempts. He 
said that the forthcoming World Championship would be a very important one for him and he did not want to 
take any risk. He will try to 
improve his skill in clean and jerk event at the world level.
Similarly, Sambo Lapung 
son of a farmer won a gold 
in the 96 kg category. He 
revealed that he had to go for loan several times to meet his preparation and 
household expenses. He 
had no idea when that loan amount would be settled. 
Sambo, who set the record 
in the clean and jerk event, said that he came into this 
sport from boxing because 
the coach of the boxing was very strict and by adopting 
this sport he had got relief.
Komal Wakale of Maharashtra won the gold in the 
women’s 87 kg category. BN 
Usha of Karnataka, who finished second, had a tough 
fight. She lost a total of 210 
kg, leaving behind Usha by 
a difference of only one kg.

*
A huge blow to India 
as star pacer Jasprit 
Bumrah is ruled 
out of the upcoming ICC 
T20 World Cup 2022, starting October 16 due to back injury.
The BCCI Medical team 
has ruled out Team India fast bowler Jasprit Bumrah 
from the ICC Men’s T20 
World Cup squad. The decision was taken following a 
detailed assessment and in 
consultation with the spe-cialists. Bumrah was initially ruled out from the ongoing three-match T20I series against South Africa due to 
a back injury. The BCCI will 
be naming a replacement for 
Jasprit Bumrah in the squad for the marquee tournament 
soon.
India has put a lot of effort into getting ready for 
the T20 World Cup. They 
played T20Is in Ireland, 
England, the Caribbean, and the UAE over the course of the past three months, in addition to the home series against Australia and South Africa.
At the ICC competition, India is in Group 2 with Pakistan, Bangladesh, South Africa, and two qualifiers.
Following their October 
23 encounter against Pakistan at the MCG, they will 
play on October 27 , against a 
qualifier in Sydney, on October 30, against South Africa in Perth, on November 2, 
against Bangladesh in Adelaide, and on November 6. 
(vs qualifier in Melbourne).
India T20 World Cup 
squad: Rohit Sharma (capt), KL Rahul (vice-capt), Virat 
Kohli, Suryakumar Y adav, 
Deepak Hooda, Rishabh Pant (wicket-keeper), 
Dinesh Karthik (wicketkeeper), Hardik Pandya, R. 
Ashwin, Y uzvendra Chahal, Axar Patel, Bhuvneshwar 
Kumar, Harshal Patel, Arshdeep Singh.
Reserve players: Mohammed Shami, Shreyas Iyer, 
Ravi Bishnoi, Deepak Chahar. 

*
Unbeaten half-century by Dawid Malan and a dominant show from pacers 
helped England seal a highly-entertaining T20I series after a 67-run win 
against Pakistan in the seventh and 
final match in Lahore on Sunday.
England has clinched the series 4-3. 
In the first innings, Malan’s 78* off 47 balls powered the visitors to 209/3 in 
20 overs. Mohammad Hasnain (1/32) took a wicket for Pakistan. Chasing 210, Shan Masood (56) did hit a 
half-century but did not get ample 
support from other batters, which 
meant that Pakistan could only score 
142/8. Woakes (3/26) led the English bowling chart for the day and other bowlers took key wickets too.
Chasing 210, Woakes gave England 
the big wicket of skipper Babar Azam for just 4 after the batter gave a simple 
catch to Harry Brook at short cover. 
Rizwan’s (1) stumps were rattled by Reece Topley balls later, leaving Pakistan at 5/2.
Iftikhar Ahmed and Shan Masood 
then started repairs after two early hiccups. But they could not proceed 
for too long as Ahmed was dismissed 
for 19 off 16. Willey got his first wicket of the match after Ahmed gave a topedge to keeper Phil Salt while going 
for a cut. Pakistan was 33/3 in 5.1 
overs.
After the end of powerplay in six overs, Pakistan was at 37/3, with 
Masood (11*) joined by Khushdil Shah 
(2*).
The duo helped their side cross 
the 50-run mark and rotated strike 
carefully, hitting fours and sixes occasionally. The 53-run stand between the duo was broken after spinner Adil Rashid dismissed Khushdil for 27 off 
25 balls. Pakistan was now at 86/4 in 
12.2 overs.
From that point on, it was basically 
Masood carrying the Pakistan batting. Other batters, notably Asif Ali (7) and Mohammad Nawaz (9) failed to make an impact. Masood did score 
a half-century, before being dismissed 
by Woakes for 56 off 43 balls with four boundaries and a six.
Pakistan could only score 142/8 in 
their 20 overs as none of the batters 
except Masood, Iftikhar, Khushdil 
could get into two digits.While Woakes (3/26) led the bowling attack, he also got support from 
David Willey (2/22) and also Topley, 
Sam Curran and Rashid, who all got a wicket each.
Earlier, put to bat first, openers Salt 
and Alex Hales gave England a solid start before Hasnain trapped Hales 
leg before wicket for 18 off 13 balls, 
leaving England at 39/1 in 4.1 overs. Salt was run out for 20 off 12 soon by 
Shadab Khan.
From 39/2, Malan and Ben Duckett 
rebuilt England’s innings. England 
was at 57/2 in six overs at the end of 
powerplay, with Duckett (8*) and Malan (9*).
The duo started to score with attacking intent. Malan in particular looked 
in good touch and scored at a better strike rate than his recent outings. A 
62-run stand between the duo was 
ended after Duckett was run out for 30 off 19 balls by Rizwan.
Harry Brook, England’s star in this 
series was next. Malan brought up his half-century in 34 balls with six 
fours and a six. Saving the best for the 
last, Brook-Malan ended the innings on high after smashing Mohammad Wasim for 20 runs in the final over.
Malan’s knock of 78* off 47 balls 
with eight fours and three sixes earned him the ‘Man of the Match’ 
title.
Harry Brook on the other hand won 
the ‘Man of the Series’ title for scoring 
238 runs. 
